DETROIT — Sonny Gray has landed on the 15-day injured list for the second time this season, this time with a right pectoral strain. The Twins starting pitcher dealt with a hamstring injury that took him out of his second start early and kept him sidelined for several weeks. Since his return, he had been stellar, putting up a 1.65 ERA with 34 strikeouts through May. But he exited his start this past Sunday a bit early after feeling soreness. In Detroit, he rehabbed, including throwing out to 90 feet. Manager Rocco Baldelli saw that as a positive sign. "We weren't sure that he was going to be able to pitch by, say, Tuesday. We thought it was possible, but not something that we … thought was a definite," Baldelli said, adding Gray would have had to throw a bullpen Saturday to make that timeline. "… He feels some stiffness in the pec and instead of pitching him possibly not at full strength, that thought really we didn't want to contemplate. It wasn't the easiest of calls." Gray's next start was supposed to be Friday in Toronto. Chi Chi Gonzalez seems the likely replacement, as he is with the team. The Twins signed Gonzalez to a minor league contract as a free agent this offseason. In his five starts and eight appearances for Class AAA St. Paul, he has a 3.44 ERA. He has pitched in the major leagues, in 2015-16 with Texas and 2019-21 with Colorado. Yennier Cano, a reliever who has been with the Twins on this trip as part of the taxi squad, was recalled as the corresponding roster move for Gray. Cano made his major league debut this year and has allowed 11 runs on 12 hits through 7 1⁄3 innings. Ian Hamilton was also with the Twins on Thursday in preparation for the Toronto series. The former White Sox reliever has a 0.71 ERA through 12 2/3 innings at St. Paul. Gilberto Celestino is primed to return to the Twins. The outfielder, who has a .324 batting average in 31 games this season, has tested out of the COVID-19 protocols, which allows vaccinated players to rejoin their teams after being symptom-free and testing negative for two consecutive days. He initially fell ill a week ago. Baldelli said where Celestino is at physically will inform how much he's capable of contributing to the Twins. Celestino went through a full workout Thursday at Target Field and will meet the Twins in Toronto. "He could be active [Friday]. We could see him and want to give him another day or two," Baldelli said. "I think he's going to be active at some point in Toronto, but I don't want to even hold to that because we want to lay eyes on him first." Baldelli, who came down with COVID early in May along with Luis Arraez and Dylan Bundy, knows how COVID can have lingering effects. Both Arraez and Bundy needed a few extra days before reappearing in the lineup. Joe Ryan, who also contracted COVID and went on the list May 25, will reach the 10-day mark Friday and will be eligible to return as well. But Baldelli said the starter is "a tick" behind Celestino, so Ryan will throw at Target Field this weekend before returning to the rotation. Baldelli didn't rule out a rehab assignment for Ryan, either. Shortstop Carlos Correa tested positive in Detroit, and the Twins will likely medevac him back to Minnesota soon.   