 The fate of a case challenging whether Minneapolis is employing enough police officers now rests in the hands of the Minnesota Supreme Court, which heard arguments from both sides Thursday morning. The case hinges on a question of how to interpret a provision in the city's charter that says Minneapolis must "fund a police force" with a minimum number of employees based on population "and provide for those employees' compensation." James Dickey, an attorney for eight North Side residents who sued the city in 2020, argued that Minneapolis must employ 731 police officers based on the latest census data. "Our view of the charter is logical. It is simple and straightforward," Dickey told the justices. Assistant City Attorney Gregory Sautter countered that the city had met its obligations because elected leaders included funding for more than the minimum number of officers in their recent budgets. What do to after that is "fundamentally discretionary" and largely in the hands of Mayor Jacob Frey, he said. Police staffing questions have dogged city leaders the past two years, as they sort through demands to both transform the city's public safety systems in the wake of George Floyd's murder and combat the highest violent crime increase in decades. The city's police force has about 280 fewer officers than it did at the time of Floyd's murder. Data provided by the city showed the Police Department had 621 police officers on its payroll as of late last month, 39 of whom were on a "continuous leave" lasting about two weeks or longer. It had 127 civilians on payroll, including eight who were on "continuous leave." Funding for the Police Department fluctuated over a series of tense budget negotiations and a nationally watched election cycle. The city's elected leaders moved some police funding to other programs but have since nearly restored it. A group of North Side residents troubled by violent crime in their neighborhoods — including former City Council Member Don Samuels, who is running for Congress — sued the city two months after Floyd's murder. They argued officials weren't fulfilling the charter requirement to employ a minimum number of police officers. Hennepin County Judge Jamie Anderson sided with them and gave city leaders until June 30, 2022, to hire more officers or demonstrate in good faith why they can't.  The Court of Appeals unraveled that order this spring, saying the charter "clearly imposes a duty" on the City Council to fund a police force with a minimum number of sworn police officers, but it does not require the mayor to continuously employ them. Attorneys for the residents who sued are now asking the Supreme Court to restore the Anderson's order. Justices spent nearly an hour Thursday morning hearing arguments from attorneys on both sides and peppering them with their own questions. Sautter, the city's attorney, echoed his earlier, written arguments that: "Not included in that [charter] language is any requirement to employ a certain number of peace officers at a certain level at any point in time." Dickey, in response, called that "almost incomprehensible." The justices' questions touched on a variety of issues: Was the city's charter clear, or ambiguous? Had residents changed the minimum police funding requirements when they signed off years earlier on a proposal mean to update language to make it clearer and less legalistic? If they were to restore Anderson's order, what authority would the courts have to compel the city to hire more police officers? Their discussion entered a number of possibilities, ranging from a consent decree to holding individual elected leaders in contempt. "We'll only know what happens when it happens," Sautter said. This story is developing and will be updated.