BROOKLINE, Mass.  — The Latest on the U.S. Open (all times local): ___ 7 p.m. Rory McIlroy shot a 69 on Friday to move into a tie for second place through 36 holes at the U.S. Open. McIlroy bogeyed the 10th hole, then picked up three birdies on his way in to finish at 4 under. He's looking for his second U.S. Open win and his first major title since the 2014 PGA Championship. McIlroy was one stroke behind Collin Morikawa; qualifier Joel Dahmen also was 5 under with three holes to play. Jon Rahm was 4 under.  ___ 7 p.m. Cameron Young had an interesting back nine at the U.S. Open. Young went bogey-par after making the turn onto the first hole. He made a quadruple-bogey 8 on the 496, par-4 fourth, followed by a plain old bogey on the fifth to fall to 8 over for the tournament. That's when things turned around. He birdied the fifth and then made a hole in one on the sixth, holing a 7 iron with two hops and a roll for the last foot. He also birdied Nos. 7 and 8, picking up five strokes in four holes to improve from way out of contention to near the projected cut. ___ 6:05 p.m. Colin Morikawa shot a 66 on Friday to move to 5 under par and into the second-round lead at the U.S. Open. Morikawa missed a four-footer for eagle on No. 8, then made the birdie putt to take the lead. Defending champion Jon Rahm also birdied the eighth hole. That put him at 4 under, and in a three-way tie for second. Rahm had a long birdie putt on No. 9 that could have moved him into a tie for the tournament lead, but he slid it about 8 inches past the hole. He's done for the day with a 67. Qualifier Hayden Buckley shot a second straight 68 and is also 4 under through 36 holes. Joel Dahmen is 4 under with five holes to play. ___ 6:05 p.m. Travis Vick is done for the day at the U.S. Open with a 69 and a three-shot lead in the race to be the low amateur at The Country Club. Vick is 1 under par for the tournament and in the top 20 with about one-third of the field still on the course. He is three strokes ahead of the next-closest amateur, Austin Greaser, who was 2 over for the tournament. Vick, 22, helped Texas win the NCAA golf championship earlier this month. ___ 6:05 p.m. The cut line at the U.S. Open has been bouncing between plus-3 and plus-4 for much of Friday afternoon, leaving about 20 golfers in limbo. Among those at 4 over hoping the line stays there are Sergio Garcia, Shane Lowry, Jim Furyk and Patrick Cantlay. About a dozen more players are 5 over but still on the course with a chance to play their way into the weekend. ___ 5:50 p.m. Qualifier Hayden Buckley is in the clubhouse with his second straight 68 and a tie for the lead at the U.S. Open. Reigning British Open champion Collin Morikawa is also 4 under at The Country Club with two holes left to play in the second round. Joining them is Joel Dahmen, another qualifier. Buckley was a walk-on at Missouri who wound up making the All-American third team as a senior. This is his second appearance in a major; he missed the cut last year. Defending champion Jon Rahm and Rory McIlroy were still on the course. They're among eight golfers tied at minus-3. ___ 5:15 p.m. Qualifier Joel Dahmen has moved into the lead at the U.S. Open. Dahmen was 2 under through nine holes in the second round at The Country Club to improve to 5 under and take a one-stroke lead. Two-time major champion Collin Morikawa was the biggest name among those at 4 under. David Lingmerth and Brian Harman were also one stroke back. Dahmen missed the cut in both previous U.S. Open appearances. He wasn't even sure he wanted to try again before deciding 10 days ago to give a shot and playing in a 36-hole qualifier. He made it with one stroke to spare. Top-ranked Scottie Scheffler is in the clubhouse with a 67 and tied for fourth with five others. ___ 4:15 p.m. Collin Morikawa has made a move at the U.S. Open in his attempt to win a major golf tournament for the third year in a row. The reigning British Open champion, who also won the PGA Championship in 2020, started the second round at minus-1 and picked up four more birdies through 11 holes, moving into a tie for the lead at 5 under with David Lingmerth. Lingmerth entered the day at minus-3 and improved to 5 under through 12 holes at The Country Club. The 34-year-old Swede has won once on the PGA Tour and his best finish in a major was 12th at the 2016 U.S. Open. Morikawa made the turn at 4 under and made a 31-foot birdie putt on No. 1 to move into the lead. ___ 12:50 p.m. Masters champion and top-ranked Scottie Scheffler shot 3-under 67 to join Rory McIlroy and four others in the lead at the U.S. Open. Also tied for the top spot at 3 under are players ranked 130, 371, 445 and 592. They are Joel Dahmen, Nick Hardy, Callum Tarren and David Lingmerth. Hardy shot 2-under 68 to take his place at the top of the leaderboard. The other three players and McIlroy, who is ranked third, had afternoon tee times at The Country Club, where there was a 70% chance of thunderstorms. Scheffler's 67 in the morning was highlighted by a hole-out from around 60 yards on the par-5 14th for eagle. Scheffler's buddy, Sam Burns, also shot 67 to draw within one shot of the lead. ___ 11:50 a.m. Scottie Scheffler and Brooks Koepka made eagles within 60 seconds of each other on the par-5 14th hole to vault up the leaderboard at the U.S. Open. Scheffler, the reigning Masters champion, hit a pitch shot from about 60 yards out of the deep rough that went in for a 3. Then Koepka knocked in a 14-foot putt. Scheffler's eagle put him at 2 under for the tournament, one shot behind five players tied for the lead, including M.J. Daffue, who had been at 6 under before making three bogeys on his back nine. Koepka's 3 put him at 1 under with four holes left in his round. The rest at 3 under, including Rory McIlroy, have afternoon tee times at The Country Club. ___ 11 a.m. M.J. Daffue had a perfect lie. It was on the fake turf covering the floor of a hospitality tent to the left of the 14th fairway. He hit a great shot there, covering about 250 yards to end up pin high in the rough on the 616-yard par 5. But he duffed the chip shot and made a bogey 6 anyway. After that big adventure, the South African dropped to 4-under par, which was still good for a one-shot lead at the U.S. Open as he headed into his last five holes. Matt Fitzpatrick was one shot behind Daffue, in a tie for second, as he began his second nine. The rest of the group at 3 under had afternoon tee times. That included Rory McIlroy, Callum Tarren, David Lingmerth and Joel Dahmen. ___ 10:25 a.m. M.J. Daffue has a two-shot lead as he heads into the homestretch of his second round at the U.S. Open. He is 5-under par with six holes to play. Matt Fitzpatrick, who won the U.S. Amateur at The Country Club in 2013, shot 1-under 34 over his first nine holes to climb into a second-place tie at 3 under. Also at 3 under are Rory McIlroy, David Lingmerth, Joel Dahmen and Callum Tarren; all have afternoon tee times on a warm, windy day outside of Boston. There's a 30% chance of thunderstorms hitting the Brookline area this afternoon. First-round leader Adam Hadwin made two bogeys over his first four holes to drop to 2 under — three shots behind Daffue. Phil Mickelson's struggles continue. He is 3 over for the day and 11 over for the tournament. He's tied for 147th. ___ 9:15 a.m. M.J. Daffue has opened a three-shot lead early in the second round of the U.S. Open. The South African rolled in a 70-foot putt from off the front of the seventh green for his third birdie of the front nine. It put him at 6-under par, three shots ahead of Rory McIlroy and a group of three others who play Friday afternoon. First-round leader Adam Hadwin made two bogeys over the first three holes to drop to 2 under, four shots off the lead. Only 26 of the 156 players at The Country Club were under par midway through the morning rounds on Day 2. ___ 8:15 a.m. Justin Thomas had one of 25 scores under par in the first round of the U.S. Open. He didn't stay in red numbers for very long. Thomas pulled his approach on No. 10 to start the second round. It left him in a precarious spot above the green in deep grass. Worse yet, he was above the hole. His first attempt at a flop shot moved the ball a foot. The next one got onto the green and rolled 25 feet past the hole. He made double bogey, and then missed a 4-foot par putt on the next hole. Players are expecting The Country Club to get tougher as the week goes on. It doesn't seem that way to MJ Daffue (pronounced "Duffy"). He already has three birdies through five holes and was leading at 5-under par in the early going. ___ More AP golf: https://apnews.com/hub/golf and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports