The NBA draft gets underway Thursday night (6:30 p.m., Ch. 5 and ESPN) and the two biggest questions for local hoops fans are: Where will Chet Holmgren land? Who will the Wolves select at No. 19 overall in their first draft under new President of Basketball Operations Tim Connelly? Those predictions, plus every other pick in the first round, are below: The Magic shouldn't overthink this pick. Holmgren's combination of size, skill, and rim protecting are unmatched coming into the league. Orland also has a chance to reunite him with last year's draft pick and former Minnehaha Academy teammate Jalen Suggs. The Thunder haven't been fortunate enough to see a 6-10 talent like Smith in their organization since Kevin Durant left. His outside shooting at that height is reminiscent of a young KD, but he's built to secure their frontcourt for years to come. Leading Duke to the Final Four in the last season of Coach K's legendary career, Banchero made a case to be No. 1 with averages of 18.8 points, 7.6 rebounds and 3.4 assists in the NCAA tournament. Ivey would be the highest-drafted Big Ten player since Michigan State's Jaren Jackson Jr. was the fourth pick in the 2018 draft. Comparisons to Grizzlies star point guard Ja Morant seem realistic when it comes to athleticism at his position. The Hawkeyes will have their first NBA first-round pick since 1998 with Murray, who was arguably the most improved player in the country. Raised his scoring average from 7.2 as a freshman to 23.5 points as a sophomore last season. Daniels has been on the NBA's radar as a big combo guard, but scouts didn't realize how big he would become. The Australia native reportedly grew two inches since joining the NBA G League developmental team. Arizona's first-year coach Tommy Lloyd saw Mathurin become arguably the best shooting guard in college hoops as the Wildcats made a Sweet 16 run. Sharpe was the top-ranked high school player in the 2022 class before reclassifying to attend Kentucky last season. He sat out the season, but his draft stock didn't decline.   Dieng, a native of France, had underwhelming stats in the National Basketball League (8.9 points and 3.2 rebounds), but his ability to play on the perimeter at his size is intriguing. Griffin played in the shadow of Banchero's massive talent, but the Blue Devils freshman still had five 20-point performances and shot 44.7% from three-point range last season. A favorite to win NCAA player of the year at one point last season, Davis carried the Badgers on his back to a Big Ten title and earned conference player of the year honors. The 19-year-old Polish talent stands out with his dyed blond hairdo, and a strong finish to the season made him lottery material, including 15 points and 11 rebounds vs. North Carolina. The Tigers opened the season with two top NBA prospects as freshmen, but Duren proved more worthy of that distinction than his former teammate Emoni Bates. He's the most unlikely first-round pick of this year's freshmen in the draft, but nobody performed better in the clutch than this Buckeyes sharpshooter. A decade ago, Agbaji would've been a possible top-10 pick after leading his team to the NCAA title. But the 22-year-old Jayhawks senior has age working against him. Quietly one of the SEC's most consistent players, Eason scored in double figures in 17 of his last 18 games, including four straight 20-point efforts. Good luck finding a player more impactful as a rim protector than Williams, who had 22 games with at least three blocks, and added 16 total blocks in the NCAA tournament.   Not even 6-feet tall as a junior in high school, Williams was a late bloomer, but he blossomed at the right time, averaging 18 points and shooting 40% from three this season. Wildcats have a solid track record for producing guards, including Devin Booker, Jamal Murray, DeAaron Fox and Tyler Herro. With a name similar to Nuggets star Nikola Jokic, this tall and lengthy wing has trouble avoiding comparisons to the two-time MVP, but his game speaks for itself. Wesley led the Irish in scoring, and his all-around play as a freshman helped them reach the program's first NCAA tournament since 2017. One of the nation's top freshmen, Chandler topped the Vols in scoring, assists and steals, but his biggest accomplishment was leading them to the SEC Championship. Hardy passed up playing college ball to play in the NBA G League. He was once considered the top offensive prep prospect in the country, so someone will draft him on that potential. College basketball's top shot blocker had two games with double-digit swats this season and should fit into the Bucks nicely. Two years ago, Beachamp was an offensive standout at Yakima Valley College in Washington, but his success with the NBA G League attracted NBA scouts. The former East Ridge standout left his home state for prep school in Kansas and developed into a prototypical wing for the NBA with his athleticism and versatility.   Terry saved some of his best games for last with breakout performances in the Pac-12 championship game and NCAA tournament. The Warriors have a few young, talented wings, but they might not be able to resist drafting LaRavia, who can defend and play multiple positions. Baldwin was a projected lottery pick coming out of high school, but he might drop, having shown inconsistency against midmajor competition as a freshman. Christie could've used another year under Hall of Famer Tom Izzo to grow into a star, but his outside shooting is NBA-ready. 