Gas prices in Minnesota hit a new record high Friday, with the average price jumping 11 cents overnight to $4.50 a gallon, according to AAA. It was the latest bump in a continued climb; the average price for a gallon of regular unleaded gas was $4.39 Thursday and $4.23 a week earlier, according to the motoring club's survey of filling stations. Two factors fueled the steep increase, said Patrick De Haan, an analyst with the gas price tracking website Gasbuddy. Inventories at refineries in the Great Lakes and Midwest sank to near-record lows with production down about 1 million barrels a day since 2019, a drop of about 5%, he said. Meanwhile, the summer travel season is in full swing. "Demand [for gas] is up and the supply is not," De Haan said. "Nobody is sitting around and refineries are struggling to keep up." The war in Ukraine is also pushing prices higher. Crude oil moved above $115 a barrel this week due to fears of further global supply constraints caused by a European Union ban on Russian oil exports. Nationally, the average price for a gallon of gas hit $4.76 on Thursday. A year ago the price was $3.04. Stations in Hennepin and Ramsey counties had the lowest average prices in the metro area Friday, with Anoka holding the highest at $4.56 a gallon, according to AAA. Drivers in northwestern Minnesota were paying the lowest prices, on average. Big Stone County on the South Dakota border had the cheapest gas, averaging $4.29 a gallon, while drivers in the southern Minnesota county of Watonwan were paying the highest at an average of $4.62, according to AAA. On Wednesday, Minnesota broke the previous state record of $4.27 average set in May 2013 by reaching $4.33. It's not clear how high prices will go, but $5 a gallon is a strong possibility, De Haan said, particularly if something such as a hurricane or other event knocks refineries offline. "As long as demand continues to grow and supply remains tight, the pump prices are likely to continue to be elevated," said Meredith Mitts, of AAA Minnesota-Iowa. Of Minnesota's neighbors, Wisconsin has the highest average price of gas at $4.68 a gallon. Iowa checked in at $4.49, while North Dakota reported $4.44 and South Dakota $4.43. California had the nation's highest average price at $6.29 a gallon, AAA said. High gas prices have not deterred drivers yet as the pent-up urge to travel caused by the pandemic outweighs steep pump prices, said Andrew Gross, AAA spokesperson. But a AAA survey found 67% of drivers said they would change their driving habits if gas hit $4.50 a gallon. That number jumped to 75% at $5 a gallon. "If pump prices keep rising, will people alter their summer travel plans? That remains to be seen," Gross said.  