FOXBOROUGH, MASS. – For the first half Sunday, Minnesota United looked like a team refreshed by a long break, controlling play, taking the lead on a penalty and appearing to be the better team at Gillette Stadium. But those good vibes mostly disappeared in the second half. Dylan Borrero and Gustavo Bou scored second-half goals and the New England Revolution defeated Minnesota United 2-1 in the visitors' first MLS game since May 28.  The Loons outshot the Revolution 12-9, including seven shots on goal to three for New England. But it wasn't enough for them against a Revolution team that extended its MLS unbeaten streak to eight games and home unbeaten streak to six. "It's obviously very disappointing," Minnesota United coach Adrian Heath said. "I don't think the Revs played any better in the second half than we did in the first, I just don't think we probably played as well and didn't make enough good decisions with the amount of the ball that we had." Emanuel Reynoso scored in the 37th minute after drawing a penalty on Andrew Farrell and beating New England goalkeeper Djordje Petrovic, the highlight of a strong first half for the Loons (5-7-3). But after halftime, New England (6-5-5) tied the score in the 53rd minute. Standing just outside the penalty box, Borrero took a pass from Carles Gil and put a low shot on goal that was deflected by a defender and somehow squeezed in between goalkeeper Dayne St. Clair and the goalpost. It was Borrero's eighth goal of the season, tying him for second in MLS scoring. "Obviously, disappointing first goal from Dayne's [St. Clair] point of view," Heath said, later adding: "There are occupational hazards of being a goalkeeper. You make a mistake and invariably it ends up in the back of the net. He knows it was a mistake. As I've said, he's been outstanding for us, so he'll get over it." Added defender DJ Taylor: "I think it almost went through my legs and also hit off [Michael Boxall's] legs as well. It's tough for a keeper to react to a deflection. I think other than that he's been outstanding for us. Guys on our team, we miss shots, we miss plays all the time. Unfortunately in this position he misses one, you know, we pay for it." BOXSCORE: New England 2, Loons 1 Two minutes after Bou went just wide with a shot, he had another chance when Robin Lod picked up a yellow card on a foul — one of five second-half yellow cards for the Loons. Bou's free kick from the left side of the box was a thing of beauty, curling in over the wall and past an outstretched St. Clair. The Loons generated some opportunities late but could not come up with an equalizer. They drew a free kick just outside the box in stoppage time, but Reynoso's left-footed kick went right into the Revolution wall. Petrovic finished with six saves. "It's a tough one to swallow," Taylor said. "I think we came here and played really well, especially the first half. I thought we were in control for most of the game. It kind of feels we kind of just let them back into the game. I think regarding our performances, we definitely should've got three points from this."