The arrest early Wednesday of an armed man outside Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh's Maryland home is a depressing sign of the fanatical times. Violence in the name of politics now threatens the judiciary, and Washington's remaining adults have an obligation to act with dispatch to protect the justices, their families and the court as an institution. Californian Nicholas John Roske, 26, was arrested at night dressed in black. He allegedly had a suitcase, backpack, a Glock 17 with two magazines and ammunition, pepper spray, a tactical knife, hammer, screwdriver, crow bar, zip ties and duct tape. According to the Washington Post, Roske told police he "was upset over the leaked draft of an opinion that would overturn the constitutional right to abortion" in Roe v. Wade. The man allegedly said he came to kill Kavanaugh "thinking it would give his life purpose." He has been charged with attempted murder. We warned after the leak of Justice Samuel Alito's draft opinion that a fanatic could attempt a violent act against one of the justices, and here we are. The justices live in suburban Washington neighborhoods, not in gated compounds. They receive personal security as individuals, which has been enhanced since the leak. But their families don't, and Justice Amy Coney Barrett has school-age children. The Senate in early May unanimously passed a bill to enhance security for the justices' families, in line with what's offered for high-ranking executive and legislative officers. Yet the Supreme Court Police Parity Act has been languishing in the House. Democratic Sen. Dick Durbin of Illinois told a reporter recently that he's "very much" concerned by the delay. Senate GOP Leader Mitch McConnell was right on Wednesday to call on Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats to pass the bill immediately. Democrats now have a particular obligation to lower the public's blood pressure about the court. They're predicting the end of abortion in America, and that isn't close to what would happen if Roe is overturned. The abortion debate will merely move to the states and the political process in state legislatures.