A recent letter writer ("Is a spouse's view really a violation?" Readers Write, March 29) cited Sen. Amy Klobuchar's comment that Justice Clarence Thomas committed an ethics violation. Of course, a spouse's point of view is not a violation of the code of ethics, but I'm sorry, that is not the point at all. Please look up and read the definition of recusal. Judges must (or should, if they are on the Supreme Court) recuse themselves if there is a potential conflict of interest or a lack of impartiality. Klobuchar called out Thomas because he did not recuse himself from the vote on whether certain records should be turned over to the Jan. 6 committee. In fact, the Supreme Court voted 8-1 that the records in question must be turned over. Thomas was the only "no" vote, and it was entirely possible that some of Ginni Thomas' communications were in those records. This is a clear definition of lack of impartiality, and Thomas should have recused himself. He violated not only ethical standards but also severely damaged the integrity of the Supreme Court. Doug Jensen, Minnetonka  •••  We're experiencing what might be one of the greatest conflicts of interest for our generation in the form of Ginni Thomas and her noted husband. Under normal circumstances, I'd say it's possible that any married couple can live happily ever after while successfully dissociating themselves from the other's politics, as long as there is respect for the other's choice. Normally I'd be inclined to give the same benefit of the doubt to a sitting Supreme Court justice because they're supposed to be professional enough to dissociate themselves from the political clamor that always surrounds them. Supreme Court justices have the right to practice their own politics as long as they do not allow them to cloud their interpretation of the law. At least that's the theory of how it's supposed to work. Unlike the members of a jury, who can be sequestered to drown out the clamor, the justices do not live in a vacuum where they are totally divorced from the realities of our world. They even make public speeches that place their politics on display, sometimes in a very open manner. We've seen this on both sides of the political spectrum, and it is their right. In the same breath, we can say the spouse of a sitting justice has the right to their own politics. They also have the right to share them with their spouse and anyone else who is willing to listen. Indeed, it's likely that Ginni Thomas shared many of her political thoughts with her like-minded husband. It's hard to think otherwise. Where that discourse crosses the line is when the spouse advocates for the overthrow of a legitimately elected government. As I said earlier, we always like to believe that a sitting justice can rise above the political clamor when it comes to interpreting the law. In this case, the political clamor has been lying inches away in the same bed for 35 years. That's where we edge closer to the point where simply recusing yourself from cases involving the Jan. 6 insurrection isn't enough. When Clarence Thomas took his position on the highest court in the land, he placed his hand on a Bible and swore that he would defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign or domestic. I understand that most people wouldn't rat on their spouses if they were involved with the Jan. 6 insurrection, but we're just ordinary Joes and Janes who aren't one of nine elite people with a lifetime appointment to the highest court in the land. Clarence Thomas did not have that luxury due to the oath he swore and the obligation he owes to the United States of America. As far as I'm concerned, his failure to act is grounds for impeachment. Dale Jernberg, Minneapolis  •••  At first, I was inclined to agree with the writer of the letter "Is a spouse's view really a violation?" that a spouse's words and actions are not sufficient reason for a judge or justice to recuse her or himself. I have no expertise in the law or judicial ethics. However, when I googled "recusal of judge," I readily found a number of websites giving a situation calling for a recusal as "When the judge is interested in the subject matter or he has a relationship with someone who has an interest in it." This rule clearly applies to the circumstances involving Justice Thomas and his wife. Granted, these rules only explicitly apply to judges, not U.S. Supreme Court justices, but I would hope that justices would hold themselves to at least as high of a standard. Thomas Q. Sibley, St. Joseph, Minn.  Has the Minneapolis school board come completely unraveled? If you were previously unconvinced of their ineptitude and incompetence, Tuesday's night's school board meeting would have assured you. Did all the Minneapolis schools need to add 42 minutes to their school day and go to school until nearly July? The answer was "yes." And then it seemed to be, "No, actually. Only some." When Directors Adriana Cerrillo and Sharon El-Amin expressed concern that the board was rushing the vote and didn't have enough input from community, they were told that they had already voted. It went something like: "We voted?" "Yes, we did." "No, we didn't." "Let's vote again!" At this point, four extremely intelligent students got vocal. Four. The students thought it seemed absurd to vote before listening to the community members who had come to speak. Director Siad Ali tried to subdue them with patronizing lecture, but he failed. These four brilliant young humans (only four) completely flustered the board in three minutes flat. Which is kind of funny since the board thinks teachers should have class size caps of 44. Amid the chaos, yelling, pandemonium and a weird speech by Treasurer Kimberly Caprini, the majority of the board ended up voting "yes" for the "good of the kids" or something like that. Everyone knows that children learn best when they have been in a hot building for many hours, right? Nelson Inz and Kim Ellison were very vocal about following laws, even if they didn't make sense, and Jenny Arneson sat on her chair like a smushed cheese sandwich. Ira Jourdain voted no. Cerrillo and El-Amin walked out. Did they vote before they left in protest? Who knows? Megan Marsnik, Minneapolis  •••  Minneapolis students just returned to school on Tuesday, March 29, and the powers that be at the district think it is a good idea to continue with the planned spring break that will start on Monday, April 4. I am sure the idea was that people who planned vacations should not have to change plans, but the school year has been extended, so that argument is a wash, given that this time could be used against extending the year. Therefore, the only debate at hand should be which option serves student learning best. That answer is clear: One does not return to school for four days after missing 15 days of class instruction, only to adjourn for another week. This is a gross abuse of public trust and these laissez-faire attitudes toward serving the public are exactly what is eroding opinion of not only public education, but every level of government. This cannot stand. L.W. Nelson, Minneapolis   We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here.