KANSAS CITY, Mo.  — The Kansas City Chiefs traded wide receiver Tyreek Hill to Miami for a package of draft picks on Wednesday, and the Dolphins are giving the three-time All-Pro a $120 million, four-year contract extension that makes him the highest-paid player ever at his position, a person familiar with the moves told The Associated Press. The Chiefs will get the Dolphins' first- and second-round picks and their fourth-rounder in this year's draft, and fourth- and sixth-round picks next year, the person told the AP on condition of anonymity because terms of the deal were not announced. Hill's agent, Drew Rosenhaus, said the extension from Miami includes $72.2 million guaranteed. The value of the deal surpasses the five-year contract that Davante Adams signed after he was traded from Green Bay to Las Vegas last week, which averages $28.5 million and includes $67.5 million guaranteed. The Chiefs had been in discussions with Hill on a contract extension in part because they were seeking relief from a tight salary cap situation. But talks had stalled over the past few days, and Hill's representatives requested permission to seek a trade, which came together quickly with multiple teams expressing interest in him. The deal clears more than $18 million in salary cap space for Kansas City. Hill appeared to indicate that his time with the Chiefs was over more than a week ago when the six-time Pro Bowl pick tweeted: "we came a long way thank you chiefs kingdom I'm forever indebted." He also was keenly aware of the market for top wide receivers, retweeting a post about the Jaguars signing Christian Kirk to a four-year, $84 million deal. It has been a wild NFL offseason when it comes to big names, even though the new league year is just 1 week old. The Seahawks traded Russell Wilson to the Broncos, Deshaun Watson ended up in Cleveland, the Falcons sent Matt Ryan to the Colts and Carson Wentz landed with the Commanders — and that's just quarterbacks. Adams and Kirk found new homes along with fellow wide receiver Amari Cooper, who went from Dallas to Cleveland. And top-tier pass rushers Khalil Mack (Chargers) and Yannick Ngakoue (Colts) also have landed with new teams. Hill was a controversial pick by the Chiefs in the fifth round of the 2015 draft, a year after he was accused of punching his girlfriend and kicked off the team at Oklahoma State. Then, three years ago, prosecutors in suburban Kansas City declined to charge Hill after an alleged domestic violence incident involving his fiancé and their 3-year-old child. On the field, Hill has surpassed every expectation, giving coach Andy Reid an outlet for his offensive creativity while teaming up with quarterback Patrick Mahomes to form one of the league's elite pass-catch duos. Hill helped the Chiefs win back-to-back AFC titles and their first Super Bowl in 50 years after the 2019 season. He also helped them get back to the conference championship game in January before losing to the Bengals, capping arguably the best year of his career: He had a club-record 111 catches for 1,239 yards and nine touchdowns. In just six seasons, Hill already has 479 catches for 6,630 yards and 56 touchdowns. The trade for Hill is another major move by the Dolphins, who are trying to build around quarterback Tua Tagovailoa and end a streak of five straight years out of the playoffs. They also have reached deals with left tackle Terron Armstead, wide receiver Cedrick Wilson and offensive guard Connor Williams, among several others. The Chiefs have been trying to get younger the past few years, and the possibility that the 28-year-old Hill's speed could soon decline no doubt gave them pause. They also signed former Steelers wide receiver JuJu Smith-Schuster, who is 25, to a club-friendly one-year deal last week and are expected to add at least one wide receiver in the draft. The trade with Miami means Kansas City could do that with two picks in each of the first three rounds. It also gives them draft capital the next two years to address other needs, including defensive back and pass rush. ___ More AP NFL coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL