BinaxNOW and other at-home rapid COVID tests are now plentiful on retailers' shelves and through state and federal programs. But it wasn't very long ago that their scarcity had Minnesotans trading tips on Facebook on where to find them. Christmas and New Year's coincided with the omicron variant's surge. Those who didn't want to spread the virus at holiday gatherings took the conscientious step of testing before get-togethers and, if necessary, staying home. With so many doing the right thing, however, the tests, which can offer results in about 15 minutes, weren't easy to find. That's changed now, in part due to declining demand as COVID cases fall in many areas of the United States. Minnesotans should take advantage by restocking their medicine cabinets. And, thanks to a federal program, they could save a considerable sum by ordering tests at no cost. The Biden administration launched the COVID test program in mid-January, announcing it would send four free tests via the U.S. Postal Service to households requesting them.  On March 8, officials said households can place a second order for four tests (two per box) through the same program. The second order again costs nothing and is delivered directly to your home. The test brands available are the same ones sold over-the-counter, and include BinaxNow, QuickVue and iHealth. Consumers can order online at covidtests.gov or special.USPS.com/testkits. Orders can also be placed by phone at 800-232-0233. No credit card is needed. There's no shipping or handling fee, making this an excellent deal. Buying four tests at retailers would typically cost between $40 and $50. Delivery times also have improved since the federal program's launch in early 2022. The first round of tests ordered by an editorial writer in January took about a month to arrive. A second order placed last Monday arrived on Wednesday. The at-home tests, which generally involve a painless nasal swab, are easy to use and reliable. They can be a potent weapon against COVID when used appropriately. Testing  before a gathering such as upcoming Easter celebrations, then forgoing the event if there's a positive result, can help prevent viral spread. This strategy is not a substitute for getting vaccinated. It complements the shots, which have remained remarkably protective against hospitalization and death but may be less effective at preventing infection. Minnesota also stands out among states for its no-cost, at-home COVID test program. The state's partnership with Vault Medical Services enables Minnesotans to order a free saliva test kit shipped directly to their homes. The test is shipped back at no charge to a lab in Oakdale, Minn., with results available 24 to 48 hours after its arrival there. The wisdom of testing should be apparent this deep into the pandemic. COVID is airborne, and variants have tended to be more transmissible than the original strain. Individual responsibility exercised through testing, vaccination and other mitigation measures remains vital. Rising COVID cases in Europe and China signal that the pandemic is not over. Rapid tests are now abundant, but that could change. It's smart to stock up now to protect yourself, your family, friends and community.    