Creating a Minnesota where all children can thrive requires a sober examination of how we're failing to meet the needs of our most vulnerable populations. The reality is that Minnesota has some of the largest gaps in the nation on academic outcomes measured by race and socioeconomic status. Not only are our gaps large, but our students of color also perform worse in direct comparisons with students of color in many other states. On eighth-grade reading assessments given to students across the country, Minnesota's Black students rank near the bottom (tied for 36th out of 41 states), Black students in Georgia, Florida and Mississippi performed better than Black students in our state. And our graduation rates continue to be among the worst in the nation for children of color. A recently released Legislative Auditor's report found that state leaders lack a strategic plan and policy for improving academic outcomes for Minnesota's increasingly diverse student population ("Audit says Minnesota's efforts to close achievement gap lack clarity, structure," March 9). The good news is that research and experience have validated successful educational interventions that are proven to work. As we emerge from a pandemic that has disrupted learning for students across the state, the report highlights the need for policymakers to couple financial investments in education with these bold, research-backed policy changes: High-quality early childhood education. To ensure a strong academic foundation prior to kindergarten, investments should be made in early learning scholarships that target low-income families and send children to high-quality programs. According to a new report, Minnesota meets just five of 10 quality benchmarks for early childhood education, and ranks only 29th in preschool access for 3-year-olds and 37th in access for 4-year-olds. As the 2022 legislative session unfolds, with a record projected budget surplus available, now is the time to act to increase both the quantity and quality of early childhood education options. Research-informed tutoring programs. Trained tutors (including volunteers) can drive significant academic gains, especially in elementary schools. In the wake of the pandemic, national leaders have called for a massive investment in tutors. Other states have begun to act. For example, Tennessee is devoting $200 million for a statewide tutoring program for 150,000 students in reading and math. State and district leaders should invest in effective tutoring programs here in Minnesota. Science-based literacy (explicit phonics instruction). The research is clear: We know how to teach kids to read. Explicit, consistent instruction in phonics and decoding is fundamental to developing skilled readers. A dedicated phonics program leads to stronger comprehension — as readers become fluent at decoding text, they free up mental space to understand increasingly complex words and themes and access a curriculum rich with literature, history, science and the arts. Too many classrooms across Minnesota use "whole language" or "balanced literacy" curricula, which ignore decades of research and do not include nearly enough explicit phonics instruction to ensure all students become strong readers. Increasing teacher diversity. Minnesota has one of the largest gaps in the nation between our percentage of students of color and teachers of color. Having even one Black teacher in elementary school makes children more likely to graduate high school and more likely to enroll in college, and teachers of color have a positive impact on learning for students of all races. One solution that has faced significant resistance at the Minnesota Legislature is expanding alternative and nontraditional pathways to teaching careers. In recent years, policymakers have made some progress in this area, but not nearly enough. School performance transparency. Minnesota collects a lot of information on student and school performance, but it's often difficult to find and interpret. Many families have a hard time knowing how well their school or district is doing and whether their child's needs are being met. Many states have adopted "summative" school rating systems, which typically use a number of stars or a 1-100 rating scale to tell families how well schools are performing. An overhaul of Minnesota's School Report Card is overdue. We know what works to help all Minnesota children learn. It's time for policymakers to take action. Daniel Sellers is executive director, Ciresi Walburn Foundation.