  How well do you know cats? Check out these 10 fast questions, with the answers at the end. No fair letting your cat help. 1. When used to describe a cat's behavior, "bunting" is when a cat:A) Uses urine to mark a doorway. B) Chatters at the sight of a bird.C) Bumps and rubs his head to leave a scent mark.D) Bats around his prey. 2. Which of these is not a reason why cats claw things?A) To keep claws sharp and help remove worn claw sheaths.B) To leave scent on an object.C) To provide muscles with a good stretch.D) To be spiteful. 3. A cat getting agitated to the point of lashing out while being petted will often have a tail that's: a) Twitching and flipping at the tipb) Wagging gently from the base c) Perfectly still d) Carried straight up 4. Cats purr when they're: a) Content b) Frightened c) Injured d) All of the above 5. Most cats have how many whiskers? a) 18 b) 24 c) 32 d) 56 6. Which of the following places are not good for petting, in the opinion of most cats? a) Tummy b) Underside of chin c) Base of tail d) Side of face 7. The average cat weighs: a) Between 12 and 15 pounds b) Between 8 and 10 poundsc) More than 15 pounds d) Between 6 and 8 pounds 8. Cats start their grooming routine by:a) Licking their tail tips b) Licking their flanks c) Licking their lips d) Licking their paws 9. "High-rise syndrome" refers to: a) A cat's preference for perching on tall objectsb) The ability of cats to live happily in upper-floor apartments c) The survival rate of cats who fall from high places d) A cat's enjoyment of a good view  10. The normal body temperature of a cat is: a) 97 degrees b) Between 100 and 102.5 degrees c) 99 degrees d) 104 degrees ANSWERS1. C. Most cat lovers are familiar with "bunting," which is when a cat bumps and rubs on something, such as your leg or hand. 2. D. Contrary to common belief, cats don't destroy your sofa for spite, but because clawing is natural feline behavior. 3. A. You may avoid a nasty bite by watching your cat's tail. When the tip starts to flip, end the petting session. 4. D. Although most purring is a sign of contentment, cats have also been known to purr in stressful or painful situations. 5. B. In most cats, the 24 whiskers are neatly divided into four rows on each side of the face. Each whisker — technically called a "vibrissa" — is embedded deeper than normal hairs to enhance its sensory input. 6. A. Many cats become agitated if petted on the tummy, and they may claw or bite. Save tummy rubs for your dog. 7. B. While most average-weight cats will come in between 8 and 10 pounds, some cat breeds are much heavier. A healthy cat should have a little padding over the ribs — but not too much. 8. C. A cat will generally groom itself in the same sequence, starting by licking its lips, then its paws, then rubbing the paws over its head. The tail is generally last to get cleaned. 9. C. Cats can right themselves in midair and brace for impact if they have time, which is why they have a better chance of surviving a fall from a few floors up than from a balcony closer to the ground. Above a certain height, however, no cat can survive the fall. 10. B. Temperatures below 99 degrees or above 103 degrees are reason to worry — and to call your veterinarian.