Minnesota United coach Adrian Heath can do the math, well enough to know if you divide games played by points earned and get two, you're golden in soccer. This time last season, his Loons didn't have a single point after an 0-4 start — and yet they still made the playoffs. After Saturday night's 1-0 home victory over San Jose, his 2-0-2 team now has eight points after four games. "I wasn't so bad at school," Heath said. "I know that might surprise one or two people, but I wasn't bad." The way Heath figures it, his Loons remain aimed toward "top of the league" after striker Luis Amarilla's second goal in two games — this one in the 32nd minute — stood as the winner. "I'm pleased we've got eight points through four games, considering the teams we've played," Heath said. His Loons played Philadelphia and the New York Red Bulls to 1-1 draws and beat Nashville SC and now San Jose 1-0 despite playing with a different backline defensive lineup in three of their four games. "I would have taken eight points, with road games at Philly and Red Bulls," Heath said. "It has been a good start." Particularly if you consider just a year ago, when the Loons started with losses to Seattle, Real Salt Lake, expansion Austin FC and Colorado. "I don't even remember," Kallman said, thinking back a year. "I remember there wasn't a panic in the group. That was partly because we had good leadership and some really experienced guys, high-character guys that kept everybody going. I know mathematically, it's better to be out in front." This time, the Loons have posted two clean sheets and eight points earned with backlines cobbled together because of injuries and absence. On Saturday, the Loons started Bakaye Dibassy at left back, Hassani Dotson at right back and Kallman and Michael Boxall in the middle. Young goalkeeper Dayne St. Clair delivered his second straight shutdown in his second consecutive start. "We've got really experienced players, I think that helps you," Kallman said. "Guys who really know their position — and their positioning within their position — helps things a lot. We're just trying to do all the little stuff: good communication, talking things out, having a good shape." Heath's team now has scored one goal a game and is 2-0-2 in its first four games. It won Saturday against an unconventional San Jose team that started three players with Minnesota connections: Bloomington's Jackson Yueill and former Loons Jan Gregus and Francisco Calvo. Calvo stepped with his cleats right on Loons midfielder Robin Lod in the 43rd minute and received a yellow card that the Loons argued should have been red.