'Turning Red'Pixar continues to target streaming instead of theaters with its latest animated comedy. It's a familiar tale: A 13-year-old girl tries to convince her overprotective mom that she's squeezing too hard. But its setting — the Chinese-American community of Toronto — feels fresh. Meilin (voiced by Rosalie Chiang) and her mother (voiced by Sandra Oh) learn surprising lessons when they discover that they share the family curse that gives the playful adventure its title: In adolescence, if they experience strong emotions, they turn into giant red pandas. Disney PlusCHRIS HEWITT 'The Adam Project'Ryan Reynolds plays that Ryan Reynolds role: a snarky, built guy who's convinced that he's smarter than everyone else. Luckily, in "Adam," he's wrong about that, which he discovers when his time-traveling younger self joins him in an attempt to make things right with the dad with whom he never connected. Despite the gimmicky premise and knowing everything Reynolds will do before he does it, it's funny and low-key poignant. NetflixC.H. 'The Andy Warhol Diaries'If you don't consider Andy Warhol to be a true artist, this six-part documentary won't do much to change your mind. But allow yourself to be impressed by his ability to pop up in the most unlikely places — disco clubs, fashion shoots, reality TV — and making his mark at every stop. Jerry Hall and Rob Lowe are among the more familiar stars looking back at their encounters with the enigmatic icon. The decision to re-create Warhol's voice by combining actor Bill Irwin's readings with a computer is more distracting than illuminating. NetflixNEAL JUSTIN 'Bust Down'"Saturday Night Live" veteran Chris Redd is the most recognizable star and co-creator of this new sitcom about a group of low-level casino employees making bad bets in their personal lives. The show, which also features "SNL" writer Sam Jay, seems determined to dethrone "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" as TV's most politically incorrect comedy, mining the subject of sexual molestation for laughs and dropping racial slurs on a regular basis. Those who can handle the raunchy tone are likely to end up rooting for these lovable underdogs. Thursday, Peacock N.J. 'Taylor Tomlinson: Look at You'She's only 28, but Tomlinson has already established herself as a savvy veteran, exhibiting the kind of confidence and material that you rarely get from comics her age. In her latest stand-up special, taped in Boston, she finds innovative ways to tackle difficult subjects like growing up without a mother and battling depression. There are no Twin Cities dates on her touring calendar, but she will be in Green Bay, Wis., on March 27. Consider making the road trip. NetflixN.J.  