Mashed potatoes need no introduction. They're often the first thing that comes to mind when we hear the words "comfort food." A good mashed potato is creamy, rich and luscious while still being light and fluffy. They make the perfect side dish for almost anything, from a simple roast to a saucy stew. But while most of us enjoy a good scoop of mashed potatoes, all scoops are not created equal. For a simple dish, made with just a few ingredients, mashed potatoes can be tricky, often turning out gummy, watery, lumpy or flavorless. Luckily, over the years, I've found most of the potholes in the mashed potato making process, usually centered around starch and flavor, and they're easy to avoid. Choosing the right potato is important and a matter of taste. Yukon golds have become a popular choice since they hit the markets a few decades ago. They're considered a medium-starch potato that turns out a creamy, nicely flavored, but fairly dense mash. Russets, considered a high-starch variety, make a lighter, fluffier mashed potato, which is my preference. Feel free to choose your own adventure, though. Boiling the potatoes in larger pieces can also make a difference. Cutting them into small pieces allows them to absorb more water in the cooking process, which causes two problems. First, waterlogged potatoes make for a watery mash. Second, if the potatoes have already absorbed water, they won't be able to absorb the butter and milk or cream that you'll be adding, which carries most of the flavor in mashed potatoes. The method of mashing is also important. Our grandmothers usually turned to the trusty potato masher, ricer or food mill, but as food processors and blenders came into our kitchens, we started to use them to make what we thought would be silky smooth potatoes. Unfortunately, the fast-moving blades of the machines turned the potatoes into a gluey, gummy mess. Turns out the old ways are the best. A food mill or ricer will make a creamy, smooth mash, as will the potato masher, if you put in enough elbow grease. I use a ricer, but a potato masher works, too. Adding flavors beyond the potato, butter and cream is easy to do. Mashing up roasted garlic with your potatoes, stirring in a spoonful or two of horseradish, or topping with caramelized onions are all delicious options. Since St. Patrick's Day is just around the corner, and we know how much the Irish love their potatoes, an aged Irish Cheddar seemed like a good addition to this week's recipe. The Cheddar gives the potatoes a subtly sweet nuttiness and added richness, turning up the decadence dial an extra notch. And since I'm already gilding the lily, I thought I'd top them with a generous pile of crunchy, frizzled shallots for an added element of crunch and oniony flavor. It's so easy to fry the shallots in the microwave. It's a technique that works so well, you'll find yourself turning to it whenever you need a topping for soup, mac and cheese or even a green bean casserole. The result is a deeply satisfying, ultra-flavorful, creamy, cheesy, fluffy mashed potato, that will no doubt be the most memorable dish on any dinner plate.  Serves 6 to 8. Note: Creamy mashed potatoes, streaked with slightly sweet, nutty Irish Cheddar, and topped with crispy shallots, make a luscious and impressive side dish on St. Patrick's Day or any other day. From Meredith Deeds. • 2 large shallots, very thinly sliced (about 2 1/2 c.) • 2/3 c. vegetable oil • Kosher salt • 2 1/2 lb. medium russet potatoes, peeled and quartered • 7 oz. Irish aged white Cheddar, grated • 1/4 tsp. freshly ground black pepper • 5 tbsp. unsalted butter, melted • 1 c. half and half, heated Directions Combine shallots and oil in medium microwaveable bowl. Microwave for 5 minutes. Stir and continue to microwave in 1-minute increments, stirring each minute, until they are golden, about 8 to 9 minutes. (Watch closely, as the shallots cook quickly toward the end, and will continue to brown a bit once they're removed from the oil. Do not burn them, as they will turn bitter.) Set a strainer over a bowl and drain the oil from the shallots. Place the shallots on paper towels and season with salt, to taste. They will crisp as they sit. Set aside. Meanwhile, place the potatoes in a large pot and add enough cold water to cover by at least an inch. Stir in 1 teaspoon of salt and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Lower the heat to medium and cook for 15 to 20 minutes, or until potatoes are tender. Drain the potatoes and place them back into the pan. Dry the potatoes over medium heat, shaking the pan and stirring until the potatoes look floury, about 1 to 2 minutes. If using a ricer or food mill, place the potatoes into a bowl and then rice them back into the pot. If using a hand masher, mash them in the pot until they've reached the desired consistency. Add the cheese, 1/2 teaspoon salt and pepper and stir into the potatoes. Stir in the butter and heated half and half and cook, stirring, over medium-low heat until hot. Taste and season with more salt and pepper, if necessary. Transfer to a heated bowl and top with the frizzled shallots. Meredith Deeds is a cookbook author and food writer from Edina. Reach her at meredithdeeds@gmail.com. Follow her on Instagram ­at @meredithdeeds.