Minneapolis teachers and educational support professionals will go on strike Tuesday, and all classes will be canceled. Union leaders announced the walkout Monday evening, saying they have been unable to reach an agreement with Minneapolis Public Schools. They will begin picketing outside schools Tuesday morning. In St. Paul, negotiations continued Monday evening between the teachers union and the school district as the parties work toward agreements that would prevent a separate strike from beginning Tuesday in the state's second largest school district. The teachers unions in both cities are pushing for higher wages, smaller class sizes and more mental health supports for students. The Minneapolis union has also asked for a higher starting wage for educational support professionals in the district. Leaders in the two districts say rising costs and revenue shortfalls due to declining enrollment mean they can't afford the unions' requests. "We should not even be here talking about fighting for a quality education when we have over a $9 billion surplus in this state," said Greta Callahan, president of the teacher chapter of the Minneapolis Federation of Teachers at a news conference announcing the strike. "My message to our members is that is more than 9 billion reasons why we need to be on that picket line tomorrow." Shortly after the union's announcement, Minneapolis schools notified families that all classes, from pre-K through 12th grade, would be canceled during the strike. Varsity athletics will continue, but other after-school activities are canceled. The district also issued a statement saying, "While it is disappointing to hear this news, we know our organizations' mutual priorities are based on our deep commitment to the education of Minneapolis students. MPS will remain at the mediation table non-stop in an effort to reduce the length and impact of this strike." Negotiations between the Minneapolis and St. Paul unions and the school districts have dragged on for months, and the unions filed notice in late February that they would strike as soon as March 8 if agreements could not be reached. Discussions intensified over the weekend as the possibility of a strike grew closer. Mediation sessions between the teachers unions and the districts have run more than 12 hours a day in recent days. Minneapolis Public Schools and the Minneapolis Federation of Teachers presented comprehensive offers on Saturday, according to an update on the district's website. Mediation continued on Sunday and Monday. The Minneapolis Federation of Teachers and Educational Support Professionals released a statement at 11:30 p.m. Sunday saying, "At this point, the district is not even pretending to avoid a strike." Union leaders are "here to create systemic change and refuse to accept anything less," the statement read. In St. Paul, talks resumed at 10:30 a.m. on Monday, just hours after the previous session adjourned at 4 a.m. Mediation sessions are closed to the public. An update posted to the the St. Paul Public Schools' website said district leaders presented a settlement offer that would add contract language about class sizes, maintain mental health teams in each school and hire four additional school psychologists next school year. The offer also includes wage proposals, including a one-time payment of $2,000 to employees, which would be paid for using American Rescue Plan dollars. The Saint Paul Federation of Educators posted early Monday morning that its negotiating team was reviewing the offer. The plan would not add to the projected budget shortfall next year, Superintendent Joe Gothard wrote in the update. "It may not be perfect," he wrote. "It may address outstanding issues for some, and others may not be addressed." He also mentioned state and federal advocacy work to call for more school funding: "It is experiences like negotiating with my colleagues that I carry with me when requesting support for SPPS."