MARCH 3 Theft. Two catalytic converters were stolen from vehicles parked in the 23700 block of University Avenue NW. FEB. 12 Trespassing. Snowmobilers were reported in a new construction area in the 7000 block of Lone Oak Trail after fencing had been put up. FEB. 13 Dispute. Authorities were contacted by a parent concerned about inappropriate communications on social media between an elderly family member and their son and the son's friend. Screenshots of message threads were reviewed and contained nothing criminal in nature, only an inexperienced user of social media. The elderly relative was counseled about how to remain above reproach when using chat platforms. FEB. 15 Animal complaint. A vicious cat was reported in the wrong room of a senior residence in the  100 block of Jade Trail. Authorities located the cat, which didn't seen vicious, and took it to the room where it belonged. FEB. 10 Animal complaint. Authorities advised a caller reporting a dog barking in the 16000 block of 6th Street that the ordinance requires the dog to be barking for at least 5 minutes continuously, and that their complaint did not meet that requirement. WEEK OF FEB. 22-26 Drugs. A 23-year-old man was arrested for possession of marijuana in a motor vehicle and possession of a pistol without a permit following a traffic stop at Foliage Avenue and 161st Street W. FEB. 26 Theft. A utility trailer was stolen from the side of a garage in the 23400 block of Cornell Street NE. FEB. 9 Driving violation. An officer observed a driver looking down and clearly using his phone at Hwy. 12 and Delano Avenue. The officer stopped the vehicle and the 31-year-old driver said he was using his phone to find a gas station. He was advised he had just passed a gas station while his head was down, looking at his phone. He was cited for using his phone. FEB. 11 Domestic. Officers responded to a report of a domestic dispute between a mother and her 33-year-old son at a home in the 1400 block of Meadow Lane. The two were arguing over keys and the son shoved his mother. He was arrested for domestic assault. FEB. 27 Drunken driving. A woman reported that her son was late coming home and she was worried. Officers searched the area for his vehicle and located him driving on the shoulder. The 39-year-old man was pulled over and arrested for drunken driving. FEB. 13 Theft. Officers responded to a report of a dozen stolen roses at Dakota Convenience, 15035 Mystic Lake Drive. A 33-year-old man stole the roses and later tried to return them for a refund. He agreed to pay restitution in full and was not issued a citation. He was arrested for a Ramsey County warrant. FEB. 13 Theft. A 2015 Chevrolet Malibu was stolen from the 3800 block of Macalester Drive. A woman reported she had left the vehicle running while she ran back into the apartment to get a backpack. FEB. 15 Weapon. A 32-year-old man was arrested for possession of ammunition by an ineligible person, possession of a firearm by an ineligible person, possession of a pistol without a permit, possession of marijuana, driving after a license revocation and violating a domestic violence no-contact order, following a traffic stop at 17th Avenue East and Weston Lane. FEB. 15 Assault. A 13-year-old girl was cited for assault in the 1000 block of Hwy. 25. Susan Hilliard • 612-673-7131 and John Wareham • 612-673-7759 An arrest or citation means police suspect a crime has occurred; they are allegations and still must go before a judge. Items are selected from reports made to police departments and are not intended to provide a comprehensive picture of crime.