  Sleeping in the same bed with someone is not as simple — or as romantic — as movies and commercials make it out to be. Whether you're sleeping with a blanket hog, someone who snores, or a kid or pet who likes to take their half out of the middle, sharing a bed can be a challenge. We asked some sleep experts to share their best advice for sharing happily and sleeping well. Get the temperature right If one of you sleeps hot and the other is always freezing, use bedding to adjust the temperature. For really cold climates, Wirecutter supervising editor Courtney Schley recommends a heated mattress pad, such as the the Sunbeam Premium Quilted Heated Mattress Pad, which has two controllers so each person can set their own temperature. You also can adjust the temperature by layering blankets or setting up your double, queen or king-sized bed with separate comforters, Scandinavian-style. Mask noises Sometimes partners crawl into bed at different times; sometimes they snore. It can be hard to minimize the noise, but you can mask it with a white noise machine or by wearing sleep headphones. If you want to fall asleep to music or a podcast, senior staff writer Lauren Dragan recommends SleepPhones. These Bluetooth headphone-headband hybrids, encased in machine-washable fabric, have no hard plastic pieces to smash into your head while you sleep. Of course, you can also always use earplugs. If someone likes to stay up later watching TV, they could invest in a pair of wireless TV headphones or a streaming device like the Roku, which has an app that allows you to listen with headphones through your phone. For couples who need to wake up at different times, a vibrating alarm on a wearable smartwatch or fitness tracker can be a lifesaver. Dim the lights If you want a softer, more ambient glow that won't harshly wake a sleeping partner, senior editor Jennifer Hunter recommends a bedside lamp like the Andrew Neyer Goodnight Light. It comes with a delightful (and quiet) touch sensor on/off switch. Having a sleep mask is also wise for anyone who likes to go to bed first or wake up later. For people who like to read in bed, a headlamp with a red light setting is "less bright than a white light, but you can still read by it," says senior editor Marguerite Preston. If your partner is kept awake when you read on your phone, add a low light filter, to reduce the brightness of your screen. Pick the right kind of mattress If you have the space and/or budget to upgrade the size of your bed to a king (or two twins smushed together), we definitely recommend you start there. Senior sleep staff writer Joanne Chen, who has been testing dozens of mattresses for the past few years, recommends the Sleep Number 360 p6 Smart Bed, because you can set separate firmness levels. You also can try mattress toppers or foam mattresses, which tend to offer better motion isolation.