The union that represents Minneapolis Public Schools' food service workers announced on Tuesday that its members plan to go on strike, citing a standstill in negotiations with the leaders of Minnesota's third-largest district. The announcement triggers a 10-day timer for the district and union to reach an agreement before workers may begin picketing. "Ed Graff got our 10-day notice today," said Kelly Gibbons, Service Employees International Union Local 284 executive director. "Enough is enough." The 200 union members are responsible for serving meals in Minneapolis schools, and have continued to make meals for students to pick up while schools are closed during the teachers strike. It was not immediately clear what the food workers' walkout would mean for school meals, though district officials in a statement said they were "committed to ensuring our students continue to get daily meals." Community organizations, such as the YMCA and the Hennepin County Library system, have also provided meals during the strike. SEIU Local 284 reported that nearly 99% of its members voted to authorize the strike earlier this month. The union contract expired in June 2020. Union leaders were pushing for a $1 per hour raise in each year of the new contract, according to a statement. The 2017 agreement provided employees 30-cent raises for the first two years and a bump up to at least $15 per hour for employees who didn't yet earn that much. The part-time, hourly employees typically work 30-35 hours per week during the school year and typically make less than $28,000 a year, according to the union. About 300 people rallied Tuesday in front of district headquarters in support of food service workers. Gibbons said union and district negotiators will return to the bargaining table Wednesday. "We plan on working all day and all night if we have to," she said. Meanwhile, district negotiators met with representatives from the Minneapolis Federation of Teachers in mediation for much of Tuesday as the teachers strike stretched into its second week of school. 