Golden Smog Originally booked for First Ave's 50th anniversary in April 2020 but then snuffed out because of the pandemic, the Twin Cities-based all-star band has come up with a good consolation prize for fans. Wilco frontman Jeff Tweedy is rejoining the band for a pair of makeup shows along with Big Star drummer Jody Stephens and Pink's violinist Jessy Greene. This same lineup recorded 1998's "Weird Tales" album, including the local crew of Jayhawks Gary Louris and Marc Perlman, ex-Soul Asylum guitarist Daniel Murphy and Run Westy Run's Kraig Johnson. Both gigs will be livestreamed via nugs.net. (8 p.m. Sat. and Sun., First Avenue, 701 1st Av. N., Mpls., $60+, first-avenue.com)CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER 'Thunder Knocking on the Door' Blues/gospel/pop songs are key to the appeal of Keb' Mo's wry musical, a story about a naive musician who makes a deal with the devil. An entire family is involved in the battle against the mysterious guitar player Marvell Thunder (Ronnie Allen). Also in the cast are T. Mychael Rambo, Rajané Katurah and Thomasina Petrus (in a role Greta Oglesby was playing when the pandemic forced the Ten Thousand Things show to shut down two years ago). The story occasionally creaks but the music always soars. (Through April 24 at Capri Theater, 2027 W. Broadway, Mpls., and April 28-May 8 at Plymouth Congregational Church, 1900 Nicollet Av. S., Mpls., pay-what-you-can tickets, tenthousandthings.org.)CHRIS HEWITT Caitlyn Smith After leaving Cannon Falls for Nashville, the singer-songwriter is ready to drop her third album, "High," on April 8. Like Kacey Musgraves and Maren Morris, Smith doesn't stay in the country lane. On "High," the alluring siren pours her emotions into lushly arranged sounds with a hint of twang. She dials it down on the standout "I Don't Like the World Without You." After the pandemic derailed concerts behind her 2020 album, "Supernova," Smith will have plenty of material to debut in her home state on the first night of her the High and Low Tour. (9 p.m. Fri. First Avenue, 701 1st Av. N., Mpls., $25, first-avenue.com.)JON BREAM Sons of KemetThere is no other band quite like multi-reedist Shabaka Hutchings' quartet with two drummers and a tuba. Together, they encase the roiling of free jazz into Caribbean parade music, with a dash of hip-hop and politically charged spoken word. Their songs are variously syncopated and polyrhythmic, creating an interplay with Theon Cross' spirited bass lines on tuba that sounds greater than four pieces. Hutchings' saxophones and clarinets further diversify the textures. Born in London, raised in Barbados and classically trained, he celebrates the heroes and castigates the villains enmeshed in racism. (8 p.m. Tue., Fine Line, 318 1st Av. N., Mpls., $25-$40, first-avenue.com.)BRITT ROBSON 'The Four Seasons' Helen Chang Haertzen, a violinist with the Minnesota Orchestra and a ballet dancer, is one of four local classical musicians to join Ballet Co.Laboratory for this world premiere choreographed by Joseph Morrissey and set to the work by Antonio Vivaldi. It will be followed by Kinsun Chan's "Shifts" and Genevieve Waterbury's "Danse Macabre," based on the Camille Saint-Saëns poem. (7:30 p.m. Sat., 2 p.m. Sun., The Cowles Center, 528 Hennepin Av. S., Mpls., $33-$39, 612-206-3600, thecowlescenter.org.) SHEILA REGAN 'Escape to Margaritaville' Built around Jimmy Buffett's besotted island-vibe brand and songs to match, the show was supposed to be a knockout when it landed on Broadway in 2018. But it bombed. Old Log hopes a homegrown production of the romantic comedy will do better with the change of latitude. The regional premiere of the jukebox musical is directed by Eric Morris and choreographed by Stephanie Anne Bertumen. (1:30 p.m. Thu., 7:30 p.m. Fri. & Sat., 2 p.m. Sun. Ends Aug. 27. $30-$40. Old Log Theatre, 5185 Meadville St., Excelsior, 952-474-5951, oldlog.com.)ROHAN PRESTON Mike Campbell & the Dirty Knobs The longtime guitarist with Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers and recent replacement in Fleetwood Mac is learning to be a touring frontman with his 14-year-old hobby band. While 2020's debut "Wreckless Abandon" was appealing in a garagey Stonesian kind of way, this year's "External Combustion" is a bit more polished with a Southern-fried flavoring that evokes Petty lost in a '60s haze. After two pandemic postponements, the Dirty Knobs will finally make their Twin Cities debut with a set list that includes a generous handful of Petty favorites. (8 p.m. Mon. Fine Line, 318 1st Av. N., Mpls., $35 and up, first-avenue.com.)J.B. Minnesota Sinfonia Originally from South Korea, violinist Grace Park has settled in New York City, where she recently presented her Carnegie Hall debut recital. She'll join conductor Jay Fishman and the Minnesota Sinfonia for Mozart's Third Violin Concerto. Also on tap are music of Samuel Coleridge-Taylor, Georges Bizet and a new work by Fishman. (7 p.m. Friday, Metro State University Main Auditorium, 700 E. 7th St., St. Paul; 2 p.m. Saturday, Basilica of St. Mary, 1600 Hennepin Av. S., Mpls., free, mnsinfonia.org.)ROB HUBBARD 'Mestizaje: Intermix-Remix' The Minnesota Museum of American Art has not yet reopened to the public, but the street-facing windows are alive with the exhibition "Mestizaje: Intermix-Remix." Eight Latinx artists who identify as Chicano, Chilean, Colombian, Mixteco, Mexican and Mexican-American explore the lasting and violent effects of Colonialism and identities of Indigenous/European descent. The exhibition is the first in a series of collaborations with the collective Grupo Soap del Corazón, which means "art that cleans the heart." (Ends June 12. 350 N. Robert St., St. Paul, window display open 24/7, free. mmaa.org.)ALICIA ELER Sasami Fresh off a hotly hyped run at Texas' SXSW fest, classically trained rocker and former Cherry Glazerr member Sasami Ashworth dropped one of the year's wildest and electrifying rock records last month, "Squeeze," produced with fellow Los Angeles scenemaker Ty Segall. The sophomore solo album was partly inspired by her Japanese and oppressed Korean Zainichi heritage but sounds equal parts Bowie and Danzig. Staten Island trio Jigsaw Youth opens. (8 p.m. Sat., 7th St. Entry, Mpls., $16-$18, axs.com)C.R. 'The Family Line' It's easy to envision fireworks in the setup of Lee Blessing's new play: A man (played by Bob Davis) meets his teenage grandson (Hunter Reeve) for the first time, just before embarking on a 24-hour road trip with him. Set entirely in an automobile, the Stage North play charts a relationship that begins awkwardly, proceeds to conflict and ends in a new bond as they reach their Minneapolis destination. (7:30 p.m. Fri., 2 and 7:30 p.m. Sat., 2 p.m. Sun., Capri Theater, 2027 W. Broadway, Mpls., $10-$20, stagenorthmpls.org).C.H. Rod & Custom Spectacular Show The Gopher State Timing Association, the governing body of Minnesota's hot rod and custom car show, has a theme of "third time's the charm" after being canceled the past two  years because of COVID. View a wide display vintage, sport and hot rod vehicles as well as vendors and exhibits. (9 a.m.-8 p.m. Sat.; 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Sun. $5-$16. Warner Coliseum, State Fairgrounds, Judson Av. and Clough St., Falcon Heights, gstarod-custom.com.)MELISSA WALKER 