DULUTH — The Duluth City Council on Monday appointed Noah Hobbs to its vacant at large seat, a position the former council member lost in his 2019 re-election bid. Hobbs, 32, was chosen out of 24 applicants to replace Derek Medved, a first-time councilor who stepped down midway through his term to further his gas station business. The council narrowed the field Thursday and interviewed three finalists Monday, including Justin Davis and Jenna Yeakle. Hobbs, who works for the nonprofit One Roof Housing and sits on a number of community-centered boards and commissions, served on the council from 2016 to 2020. He was council president during part of his term. Councilors Roz Randorf and Gary Anderson asked Hobbs why they should vote to appoint him after voters rejected him. Hobbs said he and Medved fit a similar profile in many ways, living in the same part of town and in the same age bracket. "Given how close the election results are ... finishing first or second in 21 of 34 precincts is very different than maybe winning in 7 precincts," he said. "There is this broad support out there for me as an individual." Hobbs said he would not campaign for the seat when the term is up, not wanting to "short-circuit" the election process considering the advantages given to incumbents. No one spoke publicly in support of any of the candidates during the virtual procedure, but several people wrote letters to the council in support of or against Hobbs and Yeakle. Calling the choice of Hobbs as a finalist "puzzling," Gay Trachsel supported Yeakle, writing that appointing a candidate who wasn't re-elected by residents is "reversing the vote of an election." Brenda Hallfrisch voiced her support for Hobbs, saying he was "engaged in the community" and a "hard worker that gets results." "I also think it is important to not be using this seat to run again, which Noah has promised," she wrote. Duluth police union members wrote questioning the effectiveness of Yeakle, citing past social media posts advocating for the defunding of police. Randorf asked Yeakle, who works for the Sierra Club, about the posts she made following the 2020 murder of George Floyd by former police officer Derek Chauvin. A Duluth native, she lived in Minneapolis then and "felt strongly at that time," she said, "when the community of Minneapolis was hurting." Were she appointed to the council, she said, she'd reach out to Duluth police leaders immediately. In a second round of votes, council members gave Hobbs 5 votes, Yeakle, 2 and Davis, who works for Black Woods Group downtown and is a member of the Red Lake Band of Chippewa, one vote. The council also approved Monday night a contract with union members of the Duluth Police Department. It includes a 10% wage increase this year, the result of an 8% market rate adjustment and a 2% general increase. In 2023, wages will increase 2%. The bulk of the increase is meant to bring Duluth police salaries in line with similar-sized cities.