WASHINGTON  — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy summoned memories of Pearl Harbor and the Sept. 11 terror attacks Wednesday in an impassioned live-video plea to Congress to send more help for Ukraine's fight against Russia. Lawmakers  stood and cheered, and President Joe Biden later announced the U.S. is sending more anti-aircraft, anti-armor weapons and drones. Biden also declared that Russian President Vladimir Putin is a war criminal — his strongest condemnation yet — the day after the Senate unanimously asked for international investigations of Putin for war crimes in Ukraine. In a moment of high drama at the Capitol, Zelenskyy livestreamed his speech to a rapt audience of lawmakers on a giant screen, acknowledging from the start that the no-fly zone he has repeatedly sought to "close the sky" to airstrikes on his country may not happen. Biden has resisted that, as well as approval for the U.S. or NATO to send MiG fighter jets from Poland as risking wider war with nuclear-armed Putin. Instead, Zelenskyy pleaded for other military aid and more drastic economic sanctions to stop the Russian assault with the fate of his country at stake. Wearing his now-trademark army green T-shirt, Zelinskyy began his remarks to "Americans, friends" by invoking the destruction the U.S. suffered in 1941 when Japan bombed the naval base at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii, and the 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon by militants who commandeered passenger airplanes to crash into the symbols of Western democracy and economy. "Remember Pearl Harbor? ... Remember September 11?" Zelenskyy asked. "Our country experiences the same every day right now." To end the invasion, Zelenskyy told the American lawmakers: ""I call on you to do more." Nearing the three-week mark in an ever-escalating war, Zelenskyy has used the global stage to implore allied leaders to help stop the Russian invasion of his country. The young actor-turned-president has emerged as a heroic figure at the center of what many view as the biggest security threat to Europe since World War II. Almost 3 million refugees have fled Ukraine as the violence has spread, the fastest exodus in modern times. Biden, who said he listened to Zelenskyy's speech at the White House, did not directly respond to the the criticism that the U.S. should be doing more for the Ukrainians. But he said, "We are united in our abhorrence of Putin's depraved onslaught, and we're going to continue to have their backs as they fight for their freedom, their democracy, their very survival." Later, leaving an unrelated event, he declared of Putin: "He's a war criminal." — the sharpest condemnation yet of Putin and Russian actions by a U.S. official since the invasion of Ukraine. Biden noted that Russia has bombed hospitals and held doctors hostage. At the White Hose, Biden described new help he had already been prepared to announce. He said the U.S. will be sending an additional $800 million in military assistance, making a total of $2 billion in such aid since he took office more than a year ago. About $1 billion in aid has been sent in the past week. Biden said the new assistance includes 800 Stinger anti-aircraft systems, 100 grenade launchers, 20 million rounds of small arms ammunition and grenade launchers and mortar rounds and an unspecified number of drones. "We're going to give Ukraine the arms to fight and defend themselves through all the difficult days ahead," Biden said. Zelenskyy, speaking from the capital of Kyiv, showed the packed auditorium of lawmakers a graphic video of the destruction and devastation his country has suffered in the war, along with heartbreaking scenes of civilian casualties. "We need you right now," he said. Lawmakers gave him a standing ovation, before and after his short remarks, which Zelenskyy began in Ukrainian through an interpreter but then switched to English in a heartfelt appeal to help end the bloodshed. "I see no sense in life if it cannot stop the deaths," he said. Among the new military hardware that Biden approved are 100 Switchblade 300 missile system drones that Zelenskyy had been seeking, according to a U.S. official familiar with the decision. The official was not authorized to comment publicly by name about the sensitive matter and spoke on the condition of anonymity. Lawmakers, with rare unity, appeared moved by the speech. Sen. Angus King, the Maine independent. said there was a "collective holding of the breath" in the room during Zelenskyy's address. Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska said, "If you did not look at that video and feel there is an obligation for not only the United States but the free countries of the world to come together in support of Ukraine, you had your eyes closed." Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin called the address heartbreaking and said, "I'm on board with a blank check on sanctions, just whatever we can do to stop this Russian advance." Outside the Capitol demonstrators held a large sign lawmakers saw as they walked back to their offices. "No Fly Zone=World War 3." The Ukrainian president is no stranger to Congress, having played a central role in Donald Trump's first impeachment. As president, Trump was accused of withholding security aid to Ukraine as he pressured Zelenskyy to dig up dirt on political rival Biden. Zelenskyy spoke Wednesday to many of the same Republican lawmakers who declined to impeach or convict Trump, but are among the bipartisan groundswell in Congress now clamoring for military aid to Ukraine. He thanked the American people for the outpouring of support, even as he urged Biden to do more. "You are the leader of the nation. I wish you to be the leader of the world," he said "Being the leader of the world means being the leader of peace." This was Zelenskyy's latest visit as he uses the West's great legislative bodies in his appeals for help. He invoked Shakespeare's Hamlet last week at the British House of Commons, asking whether Ukraine is "to be or not to be" and telling Congress that people in his country want the same as Americans: "Democracy, independence, freedom." He often pushes for more help to save his young democracy than world leaders have so far pledged to provide. Biden has insisted there will be no U.S. troops on the ground in Ukraine. "Direct conflict between NATO and Russia is World War III," he has said. Zelenskyy appeared to acknowledge the political reality beyond certain limits. "Is this too much to ask, to create a no fly zone over Ukraine?" he asked, answering his own question. "If this is too much to ask, we offer an alternative," he said, calling for weapons systems that would help fight Russian aircraft. Congress has already approved $13.6 billion in military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine, and the newly announced security aid will come from that allotment, which is part of a broader bill that Biden signed into law Tuesday. ___ Associated Press writers Zeke Miller, Mary Clare Jalonick,Ellen Knickmeyer, Farnoush Amiri, Kevin Freking, Alan Fram, Nomaan Merchant and Chris Megerian and Raf Casert in Brussels, Jill Lawless in London, Aritz Parra in Madrid and videojournalist Rick Gentilo contributed to this report.