Scott County libraries  have stopped charging late fines for overdue materials. The county previously charged daily late fines for overdue books and other materials as an incentive to ensure the items were returned on time. But recently, the library has tried to minimize the impact of overdue fines on customers, introducing fine-exempt library cards for youth in 2015 and automatic renewals in 2020. "This change supports the library's mission of creating welcoming environments where all residents can connect with resources, support, and opportunities," a county news release said. Patrons will still be responsible for the replacement cost of lost or unreturned items. An item is considered unreturned if it is kept more than 21 days after its due date, the news release said. Numerous metro-area library systems have eliminated late fines in recent years, including Hennepin and Ramsey counties. Dakota County has nixed fines for children's and teens' materials. Research shows that fines keep visitors from using the library and have no real impact on items being returned, the news release said. Erin Adler Charter school eyes land for new campus Ramsey city officials are considering rezoning an 18-acre site to make way for a charter school. The City Council on March 8 preliminarily approved an ordinance that would allow PACT Charter School to build on property owned by St. Katharine Drexel Church. The site,  at NW. 161st Street, is  zoned for residential use. PACT serves about 670 students in kindergarten through grade 12 at 7250 East Ramsey Parkway, but needs more room to accommodate students on a waiting list, school officials said in a memo to the city. The charter has proposed building a new  school  that would serve students in grades six through 12. PACT still has to finalize plans before the council would approve plans for the building, parking lot and an athletic stadium and track. Council members are expected to take up the topic again on March 22.  Neighbors who live near the proposed school have expressed concerns about  traffic, noise and light pollution, drainage and stormwater management, the impact on personal wells and the effect on nearby wetlands.  Tim Harlow Free, rescued food market opens second location A food market called Today's Harvest that offers free items donated by Twin Cities grocery stores plans to open a second Oakdale location later this month, according to the Christian Cupboard Emergency Food Shelf, the organization behind the store. Fresh foods including fruits, vegetables, meat, deli and bakery items will be available weekdays noon to 6 p.m. and 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Saturdays. The items are made available through a partnership with Second Harvest Heartland and local grocery stores, and would otherwise go to waste. "With rapidly rising food costs and living expenses, there is a growing number of people in the Twin Cities and beyond who are struggling to afford fresh and healthy food," said CCEFS Executive Director Jessica Francis. The organization's first location, at 5703 Hadley Av., serves up to 260 households daily, with shoppers coming from 135 different ZIP codes. A grand opening for the new store, at 8264 4th St., will be held March 29 at 11 a.m. Matt McKinney   