The voices in this paper commenting on the Hiawatha Golf Course redesign do not show any awareness of the bustling parks, beaches and athletic venues screened from the golf course by an ugly, rusting fence ("Preserve Hiawatha, along with its story," March 6). These are visited by people much more diverse by age, race, gender and culture than the golf course. Naysayers also ignore the deeper history of this stolen land. They turn their nose up at a substantial consolation prize: a nine-hole golf course, practice fields, a pro shop and more. They do not mention the golf course's long-term decline in usage or the threat that it will be inaccessible for any use if we get heavy rains. Meanwhile, the redesign balances irreconcilable needs and goals. It addresses history and environmental realities. It reflects insights from outreach work and expertise from the Minneapolis Park Board staff. I trust these public servants and their focus groups more than the out-of-town golf consultant quoted for that Sunday article. I feel for those who will genuinely mourn this necessary change. But I suspect many of their comrades-in-clubs' newfound attachment to history has more to do with a desire to avoid a 10-minute drive to play on another underutilized public course somewhere in the metro. I hope I am wrong. I hope these advocates also speak up about our state's abysmal record when they have the opportunity to support racial equity via public and private investments at their workplaces, in council chambers and everywhere else they hold a privileged position. Ben Horowitz, Minneapolis  •••  With the proposed Hillcrest development, the city of St. Paul is taking powerful steps to fight climate change, provide fair housing and establish good jobs where people live ("Hesitant about Hillcrest," March 5). The planning process has included more than 700 people over three years, representing especially communities of color and current neighbors. (To see the plan, go to stpaul.gov and search for Hillcrest.) The idea of 54 acres of light industrial land use initially sounds ugly and off-putting — this may be what some neighbors are picturing. But the master plan makes clear that with public art, trees, vegetation, landscaping, creative spacing and design, these areas can be functional and attractive. For close-by neighbors who are concerned about the project: Ongoing community engagement should bring together current and prospective residents and business owners. What do they share? What would they like to see in the neighborhood hub? What resources does the area need (library, child care, neighborhood security, parking, gathering space, open space)? The master plan calls for the site to produce zero carbon, using district geothermal heating (now very reliable) and on-site solar electricity from rooftop panels on the light industrial buildings. This is important for the East Side and thrilling for the whole city. I live near Marshall and Snelling Avenues, where apartment buildings are going up every block. They should all be zero-carbon, and this project will show that it can be done! Amy Gilbert, St. Paul   On March 6 I read two letters defending the Minneapolis North Side Jewish community from charges of racism and bias in the treatment of their Black neighbors ("Not how it came to be," Readers Write). I have lived in Minnesota for 54 years and in Minneapolis for 49. I grew up in Washington, D.C., in the 1950s, part of that time in a largely middle- and working-class, predominantly Jewish neighborhood. Most of my neighbors were first-generation Americans. Despite the differences in place, I have two scenarios from my youth that might shed some light on the issue raised in those letters. First: In the mid-50s, one of my neighbors sold their home to a Black family. Almost immediately, the "For Sale" signs went up. Some of our neighbors put up "This House is Not for Sale" signs. Despite everything, the neighborhood became predominantly Black within five years. The only reason for this change was racism, individual and structural. Second: My father owned a liquor store in a predominantly Black neighborhood. He was polite to his customers and hired Black employees. During the riots after the murder of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., Black neighbors protected his store. That did not stop racist stereotyping and comments by members of my family. I cite these examples only to show that racism does exist in the broader Jewish community and can exist in the core of Jewish neighborhoods along with decent treatment of Black customers. Maury Landsman, Minneapolis  •••  Two March 6 letter writers discussed their takes on the Jewish migration from north Minneapolis to St. Louis Park in the late 1960s, as featured in a recent and well-balanced "Curious Minnesota" column ("How suburb became hub of Jewish life," Feb. 27). Most of that migration occurred in the two decades after World War II. The St. Louis Park Historical Society provided information and background material to the reporter for the original story. One idea from our recent newsletter that didn't make the final cut but that we think important was the welcoming attitude of a rookie (in 1948) school superintendent: "In 1949, as usual, the Park's high school prom was to be held at the Automobile Club in Bloomington. A manager there found out that a Jewish student planned to attend and banned him. When Park School Superintendent Harold Enestvedt was informed, he told the Club that if all his students were not welcome, the prom would be held elsewhere. The Club reversed itself and everyone went to prom as planned." Enestvedt served as superintendent for 24 years until 1972 and began to include Jewish holidays in the school calendars in the mid-1950s but in 1962 got caught in a ferocious backlash when he tried to relabel the Easter recess as "spring break." My spouse and I and our 3-year-old daughter and infant son moved to the Park 36 years ago. We made our decision in large part based on the strong reputation of the schools — another of many factors that could account for the Jewish community choosing to locate here. William Beyer, St. Louis Park The writer is a trustee of the St. Louis Park Historical Society.   I have been a daily outdoor walker for over 20 years. From 2016-2021 I walked in the Lyndale neighborhood, traversing several routes that included the eastern shore of Bde Maka Ska. In April 2021, my wife and I moved to Nokomis Square Cooperative, located in the southeast Minnehaha neighborhood. I have experienced the joyful benefits of walking through the park around Minnehaha Falls, as well as along Minnehaha Creek Parkway and the eastern shore of Lake Nokomis. In my personal experience, the Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board has generally done a very thorough, consistent and timely job of clearing snow from the combined pedestrian/bike paths. Unfortunately, the source of my frustration has been the too-common snow-laden and icy sidewalks, in front of homes, apartment buildings and businesses. I believe that Tony Hull's observations in "Wintry city is no walk in the park" (Opinion Exchange, March 9) are true. My observations are also true. The Park Board is responsible for plowing many miles of walks, paths and parking lots. It is possible that based on limited resources of staff, time and funds there is a need to prioritize the snow-clearing schedule. I share Hull's expectation that the Park Board focus on being a good neighbor. However, I expect all property owners to embrace a good-neighbor ethic. The Minneapolis snow-clearing ordinance is not working. The city's sidewalks, crosswalks and bus stops are not being cleared of snow and ice in a timely and consistent fashion. Complaints to 311 and inspection of complaints have been minimally helpful from my perspective. Perhaps a citywide "good neighbor" approach could consist of a collaborative partnership with the Park Board, the city (in particular the Public Works Department), the Pedestrian Advisory Committee, Metro Transit, disability rights advocates, pedestrian/biking advocates, neighborhood associations, business associations, schools, environmental advocates, foundations, health care providers and other interested parties. This partnership ("Minneapolis Nice means clear the snow and ice") would design, implement and evaluate a comprehensive, creative and accountable program for cost-effective, timely, sustainable and consistent snow and ice removal from sidewalks, crosswalks and bus stops. Join me in grabbing a shovel, electric snowblower, ice chopper and sand to keep all our neighbors safe in winter. Kevin W. Corrado, Minneapolis   We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here.