Minneapolis Public Schools students are back in class Tuesday for the first time since teachers went on strike March 8. Teachers returned to work on Monday to prepare for the return of the district's 28,700 students. Minneapolis Public Schools reached tentative agreements early Friday with the union representing its teachers and support staff. Union members voted over the weekend to approve the contracts. In a Tuesday evening special business meeting, the school board will vote on changes made to the school calendar to make up for lost class time during the strike. Those changes include adding 42 minutes to the end of each school day once students return from spring break and tacking on an additional two weeks to the school year in June. Parents, teachers and students were happy to be back at school Tuesday morning, but some were apprehensive about the longer day. "I think the altered school day is going to be challenging for a number of students on our caseload," said Jen Dowzak, a special education teacher at Marcy Arts Magnet Elementary School. "It's a long day as it is." Parent Taylor Stringe said he hoped students would be able to "move their bodies and have fun" during the extra time at school. Stringe said he taught high school math in the district for seven years before quitting in February. "It all got to be too much," he said. On Tuesday, he said he felt good about educators' contract wins, including higher pay for Education Support Professionals (ESPs) and protections for teachers of color — and also that his kindergartner, Adelaide, was going back to school. At Patrick Henry High School, Principal Yusuf Abdullah greeted returning students as they arrived, offering fist bumps and warm welcomes as teens filed into the building. Senior Kellen Sonquist said baseball practice and the occasionally playing the video game "Valorant" kept him busy during the day strike. He wasn't bothered by the planned extension of the school day and calendar to recover days lost during the strike. "We have to make up the time somehow," he said. Abdullah said school staff will work with students and their families to mitigate the effects of the latest disruption on their education. He struck an upbeat tone as students filtered into Patrick Henry High at 8:05 a.m., saying pupils wouldn't be penalized for arriving late on their first day back. "Come on in. We've got a lot of learning to do," he said. Elementary students returning to Lake Harriet Lower school on Tuesday were greeted with hugs and high fives at a front entrance decorated with balloons and even a "red carpet" made of long rolls of scarlet paper. A green and yellow dragon — the school's mascot — helped welcome the students as "We are Family" played on a speaker and parents snapped photos of their students before they headed inside. "It's a nice touch to have all this for them today," said J.J. Grosser, the dad of a second grader. "These are young kids and have been through a lot of transition over the last two years. It has been difficult. We're excited to have a piece of normal back again." Inside, classes spent the first part of their morning settling back in. "It feels like one big celebration," said Principal Angie Ness. "The last three weeks were challenging for everyone, but this is a chance to process what our future looks like and move forward with the bonds that were created. We know there were many different feelings, but now it's about coming together as a school community." Kindergarten teacher Katie Falk said in many ways, Tuesday felt like the first day of school. Her students, along with all the other kindergarten classes, were encouraged to bring their favorite stuffed animal to class to comfort them through the return. Still, the students were quick to fall into their classroom routines. As students caught their teachers up with life updates from the last three weeks — learning to cartwheel, hurting a foot, visiting grandpa — they also shared how they felt to be back in class. Most said they were happy, though a few expressed some anxiety. Taylor Clarke, a first-grade teacher and a strike captain for the school, showed her students photos from rallies and picket lines and explained how she'd spent her last three weeks. "I was thinking about all of you the whole time," she said. When it was her turn to share how she was feeling on Tuesday morning, she told her class she was excited to see them all. "I realize how much we've all been through," Clarke said. "And I know that we can truly get through anything together." Staff writers Eder Campuzano and Erin Adler contributed to this report. Check back with StarTribune.com for more on this developing story.