More government agencies across Minnesota are lifting mask mandates in their buildings as the latest wave of the omicron variant of the COVID-19 pandemic eases. The Minnesota court system and Hennepin County will lift mask requirements in most of their buildings Monday. Duluth Public Schools  made a similar decision to lift the mask mandate in district  buildings for students and staff. These actions come after the U.S. Centers for Disease Control's (CDC) rolled back mask recommendations and moved most of Minnesota out of the high risk range. Employees and visitors can continue wearing masks if they choose, based on their personal circumstances. "In light of declining COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in our state and consistent with updated mask-related guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, we are lifting the statewide requirement for face coverings in Judicial Branch facilities," Chief Justice Lorie S. Gildea said. Businesses, major retailers and government agencies across the country have been lifting mask mandates, the first major rollback of masking recommendations in two years. Los Angeles County, New York City and other major cities have already ended their mandates. Minneapolis continues to require masks in city offices and public buildings. City officials are monitoring  the health data to determine how long the mandate will stay in place, city spokeswoman Sarah McKenzie said. Ramsey County is lifting the mask mandate in its buildings, but St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter  still requires masks in city buildings and libraries. Under Gildea's order,  state district courts, appellate courts and other judicial branch facilities must meet conditions established by its COVID-19 preparedness plan to manage in-person activities in a manner that prioritizes health and safety. She didn't rule out imposing new requirements if cases start to rise dramatically. As of Monday, Hennepin County's 8,500 employees and  visitors to its county buildings will no longer have to wear a mask. However, visitors could still be required to wear masks in certain county buildings, such as correctional, detention, and health care buildings. Building signage is being updated accordingly. The county will continue to provide masks for employees and visitors upon request. If the level of infections increases, the county will notify employees and visitors if masks are again required in county buildings, said Susan Palchick, the county's public health director.  