After a three-year pursuit, Minnesota United on Wednesday was finalizing a deal to acquire Toronto FC left back Kemar Lawrence at a position of need. The Loons will trade the rights to 2021 second-round pick Sean O'Hearn for the 5-10 veteran, a team source said. The trade is pending league approval. Lawrence will help solidify a position where starter Chase Gasper and DJ Taylor have played this season. Also Wednesday, the club announced in an unrelated matter that Gasper will voluntarily enter MLS' Substance Abuse and Behavioral Health program for personal reasons. He has not played in the season's first three games after he was hit in the head in the team's preseason finale. Lawrence, 29, has played 143 games in seven MLS seasons, played for two Supporters' Shield teams with the New York Red Bulls and has played for his Jamaica national team since 2013. The Loons have sought to add Lawrence since he went to Belgian first-division team Anderlecht in January 2020. Gasper has started 60 of 63 games in which he played during his first three MLS seasons. When all are healthy, Lawrence, center backs Bakaye Dibassy and Michael Boxall and right back Romain Metanire would give the Loons a veteran, experienced backline at all four positions. Gasper unavailable until cleared Gasper will be unavailable for team activities until he has been assessed and cleared for participation by the SABH program's doctors. A team statement announcing Gasper's decision said, "We admire his courage to seek help and we fully support his decision to enter this program and prioritize his own well-being." International-duty bound Heath said he expects Kervin Arriaga and Joseph Rosales (Honduras), Robin Lod (Finland), Dayne St. Clair (Canada) and Bongokuhle Hlongwane (South Africa) to report after Saturday's home game against San Jose for national team duty during the upcoming FIFA qualifying window for November's World Cup in Qatar. Paraguay's Luis Amarilla likely will as well. Heath said they're still waiting to hear if Boxall will join his New Zealand team in Qatar. "Obviously, you keep your fingers crossed they come back healthy and the travel doesn't take too much out of them," Heath said. "People underestimate it's not the physical part of the game. It's some of them getting on a flight for 20 hours to get here. It takes it out of them. You've got the time zones and a six-hour difference from Europe. It has an effect on the body for sure." Familiar faces The Loons face two former teammates on Saturday when Francisco Calvo and Jan Gregus come to Allianz Field with San Jose. Gregus assisted on two Calvo goals in the final six minutes plus stoppage time during a 3-3 comeback draw with Columbus in the season's second week. Former Loon Ethan Finlay scored twice for Austin FC in a 5-1 victory over Miami that same weekend. "We had a spell where it seemed like everybody who has left us was scoring goals," Heath said. "Ethan got a couple, Calvo got a couple. We mean it when we wish them the best when they leave here. We don't make decisions for personal reasons. It's what is right for us at the right time. No doubt they want to put on a big performance at the weekend and we don't expect anything else."