The new White Rabbit Kitchen (15190 NW. Bluebird St., Andover, whiterabbitkitchenmn.com) is a cozy little spot tucked into a strip mall and sports some serious rustic charm. Founded by Rob and Tammy Michaletz, the business started as a food truck, and is named after the superstition that saying "rabbit rabbit rabbit" around a campfire would keep the smoke at bay. While smoked meats feature heavily on the menu, this isn't a straight-up barbecue restaurant. We're talking smoked brisket dips, fat pretzels, thick and creamy soups and more. Open 11 a.m.-8 p.m. Tue.-Sat. The popular vegan eatery J. Selby's (169 N. Victoria St., St. Paul, jselbys.com) has finally returned to in-person dining. The restaurant had constructed a takeout window during the pandemic and kept its dining room closed until this week. Now, diners can sit and enjoy fried Buffalo cauliflower dips or the the Dirty Secret, their fake-out Big Mac burger, on site. Asa Diebolt's Asa's Bakery, the source for some of the Twin Cities' best bagels — as well as a rare producer of bialys — will open its new digs (5011 34th Av. S., Mpls., asasbakery.com) March 13 at 8 a.m. Regular hours will be 7 a.m.- 2 p.m. Thu.-Fri., 8 a.m.-2 p.m. Sat.-Sun. Diebolt launched his business as a stand at the Midtown Farmers Market in Minneapolis, selling the naturally leavened bagels and bialys that he grew up eating in upstate New York. The former Elephant Room will become Lost Fox (213 E. 4th St., St. Paul), an all-day eatery serving Lowertown from breakfast through dinner and drinks. Owners Ann and Michael Rose are industry veterans who saw a need in the neighborhood for a restaurant space that serves into the night. Michael has worked at Uptown's Cafetto, and Ann comes to the project from Dark Horse Eatery. There will be a coffee program in the morning, shifting into sandwiches; the evening menu will take inspiration from global street food. The coffee shop is already taking shape and will open soon. A liquor license, along with expanded hours and menu, is in the works for later this year. After 13 Years on Central Avenue, Sen Yai Sen Lek and Dipped & Debris will close April 23. Joe and Holly Hatch-Surisook opened the Thai restaurant (2422 Central Av. NE., Mpls., senyaisenlek.com) in 2008 as a Thai farm-to-table eatery. They opened their second business, Dipped & Debris (dippedanddebris.com), next door in 2018 with a collection of stuffed sandwiches and frozen custard. The couple said they decided it was time to step away from the industry and take a break, but wanted to provide as much time as possible to greet fans and friends. "Though we didn't grow up here, we are big fans of long Minnesota goodbyes!  So, we are giving ourselves a couple of months to continue to welcome you to our restaurants, to share food and laughs and memories, to celebrate all the good things these spaces have been, and to say thank you and goodbye." Both restaurants are open from 3-9 p.m. Tue.-Sun. 