Bloomington leaders are considering letting food trucks operate in the city by expanding a zoning rule that currently allows them only at public and private events. An ordinance to allow food trucks was prepared in 2019 and reviewed in 2020 by the city's planning commission, which unanimously recommended approval. But the City Council continued the item indefinitely in May 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic. At Monday's council meeting, members voted to move forward with a public hearing on the proposed ordinance at an upcoming meeting. If approved, the new ordinance would roll out as a pilot project,  with a review of the food truck standards after one year. Kim Hyatt County will partner with U to grow native plants Dakota County will partner with the University of Minnesota Extension and UMore Park to grow native plants for prairie restoration. The Dakota County Board recently approved the agreement, which came about after the Dakota County Master Gardeners — an Extension volunteer program — asked the county for funding, greenhouse space and a program coordinator and said they want to re-establish a partnership with the county. As part of the 18-month pilot, the county will invest $95,000 in a new coordinator for the program and rent a hoop house and bathroom facilities at UMore Park in Rosemount. In exchange, the Master Gardeners will help with growing plants, said Taud Hoopingarner, the county's parks, facilities and fleet management director. The program coordinator will also spend time managing the native plants initiative. The program will grow plants with local genotypes to be used for prairie restoration across the Dakota County park system and on the county's conservation easements, he said. The effort is expected to save the county an estimated $300,000, including $100,000 on plants alone, Hoopingarner said. The partnership will start in mid-April. Erin Adler Home gun business gets approval to expand The Ramsey City Council on Tuesday narrowly passed a resolution allowing a home-based gun business to expand operations, despite objections from  neighbors and a recommendation from the city's planning commission to deny the permit. Derek Trout, who runs Peace Keepers, Inc., was granted a Level II home occupation permit that will allow him to offer in-person sales of firearms, ammunition and accessories. It will also allow him to have one employee onsite and conduct permit to carry classes in a pole barn on his property, at 177th Lane NW. Trout had been granted a permit in 2019 that restricted his business to online sales. The city in January learned he had violated those terms after residents complained. The resolution granting the new permit brings Trout into compliance with city code. Tim Harlow  