Contained within the commentary "Three cheers for racial awakening in higher ed" (Opinion Exchange, March 7) is the allegation that "[r]estrictive housing policies and zoning laws prevent the integration of minorities into white neighborhoods ... ." While that is true, it is not the complete picture. Anyone without enough financial resources is prevented from living in a situation beyond their means. Low-income people may not be able to buy a home in a middle-class neighborhood and middle-class people likely cannot buy a home in a neighborhood of millionaires' mansions. Zoning restrictions do not cause economic equality. Ditching zoning restrictions will do nothing to address income inequality. It already exists due to unequal opportunities, structural racism such as redlining, racial bias and the widening chasm of wealth between the richest people and the rest of us, a point well made in the opinion piece. Housing discrimination was outlawed years ago. If it still exists, laws need to be enforced. The related problem is the housing shortage. Zoning restrictions do prevent builders from disrupting quiet neighborhoods, for a good reason, in order to preserve the quality of life. They also serve to prevent real estate values from going sky-high from developmental pressures. Racial discrimination is not and should not be the intent. The housing shortage should not be solved at the expense of middle-class homeowners by having their neighborhoods destroyed by developers. The problem should be addressed based on evidence from careful study of the problem. It is not helpful, and is in fact divisive, to make wild, dangerous, inflammatory, offensive accusations of "white privilege" and racism to ordinary unassuming homeowners just because they have achieved some level of success in our imperfect society. Solving our society's ills will take a lot more than moving people around and pitting one group against another. John O. Wild, Minneapolis  •••  Jacqueline Brux's commentary says that racism is one "of the most basic structural pillars underlying our economy." That is not accurate. A basic structural pillar of something is essential to its design. Racism is certainly not essential to the operation of the U.S. economy. Some of the actual pillars of our economy are regulated free trade, regulated free enterprise, private property and the rule of law. Discrimination based on race was outlawed long ago. It still occurs but is becoming less frequent over time. It certainly is not a pillar of our economy. Brux also says that "the attitudes of many reflect a contempt for the poor, the immigrant, and the members of racial and ethnic minorities." I'm sure that, in a country of 330 million people, one can find some people who hold those attitudes, but they are a small minority and don't have much effect on how our country treats poor people, immigrants and minorities. In 2020, hundreds of billions were spent on welfare programs in the U.S. In 2019, individual donations to charity totaled $309 billion. And the U.S. has more immigrants than any other country in the world. More than 40 million people living in the U.S. were born in another country. Brux wants us to believe that we are a deeply racist country that mistreats the poor and immigrants. The evidence does not support that conclusion. James Brandt, New Brighton   Unlike a recent letter writer ("Incident came from ignorance. So educate the students better," March 11) I believe the students who flashed a "white power" symbol did know what they were doing despite the explanation of their administrators ("Sometimes, that 'OK' sign just means OK," March 11). It's another plausible deniability defense deployed by "upper elementary" students, parents, public officials (and you and me) when sidestepping blame since the beginning of time. I challenge that a "comprehensive curriculum" will change this pattern of behavior, which is increasingly showcased as an acceptable alternative to the zero tolerance for racism that formed my own education. I applaud those leveling actual consequences, including sanctions by competing schools and perhaps the Minnesota State High School League, to motivate New Prague students to stop their racist displays and for administrators to get their community representatives "educated." Jay Haapala, Woodbury   In "Neighbors weigh controversial idea to make drug use safer" (March 9), the reporter writes about the harm-reduction model of dealing with the addicted. The article quotes Jack Martin, the executive director of Southside Harm Reduction Services, who touts creating "safe consumption sites" for the East Phillips neighborhood. This is coming at the problem from a Narcan point of view. I'm all for saving lives, but with just Narcan, it's not the solution we need. It's similar to those who want to make sure a woman doesn't abort her baby but do nothing to help her raise her child. It's defeatist, an attitude of, "Let's just give these folks a place to shoot up, because they aren't going to quit using, anyway." And I don't see how providing a safe consumption site will make anything better for people living in Phillips, who have experienced encampments and the crime that has come with it for years. I've noticed that harm-reduction people never consider the clean and sober who are forced to live with this devastation. Even with a "safe" place, the dealers will still be sniffing around, with their violence, guns, stolen cars and other forms of threatening behavior that menace our communities. There will still be encampments, of those who have lost everything to their drug. Phillips will be the "dumping ground" for another problem the city doesn't want to deal with. And I have to ask concerning the headline of this article, "Neighbors weigh controversial idea to make drug use safer": Safer for whom? Let's spend our tax dollars on the addicted with a tough love solution (which we don't) by not taking no for an answer. Do it legally, because the users are breaking the law, and instead of jail put them up in a treatment center and support them with medication-assisted treatment. Help them get back on their feet, find a job and reconnect with the families who kicked them out because of their using. The harm-reduction model does not work. Donna Pususta Neste, Minneapolis   Thank you to MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred, the MLB and the MLB Players Association for reaching an agreement and giving me to option to see baseball this year at Target Field ("Finally, it's time to play ball," March 11). Yes, I did say "option." I also have the option to go to hockey, football, soccer and basketball games. First-run movies are back in theaters again. Broadway shows are back on Hennepin Avenue. The Guthrie Theater is welcoming back an audience with first class productions. As you're aware, we all have options of how to spend our hard-earned money. I don't want to hear about the grueling 16-hour bargaining sessions you spent at the table trying to give me the option to return to your ballpark. Did I mention that said table was in Jupiter, Fla.? I'm sure the flight down in your private jet or cruise down the East Coast on your private yacht was very pleasant. You do realize that the average cost for a family of four to attend one game has risen to $253. Dad or Mom making the $15 an hour minimum wage in Minneapolis would need to work over 16 hours for that. Doesn't seem right now, does it? Keep this in mind the next time you're threatening to cancel part of or all of the season. We all have options. Remember the deafening silence that greeted you and your players in 2020? That silence will return when and if you push us away. Kevin Paulson, Minneapolis   We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here.