Judith Hill After releasing the powerful album "Baby, I'm Hollywood" early last year, the former Prince protégée is finally coming to Minneapolis to share those terrific new songs. With her magnetic voice, Hill will unleash the liberating sass of "Newborn Woman," the rock-soul slam of "Americana" and seductive exoticism of "Silence" as well as material from 2015's Prince-produced "Back in Time." The co-star of the Oscar-winning documentary "20 Feet From Stardom" last performed here in March 2019 at Paisley Park on a bill with other Prince-associated women. (7 & 9 p.m. Fri. The Dakota, 1010 Nicollet Mall, Mpls. $20-$35, dakotacooks.com.) JON BREAM The Shackletons Now that its namesake expeditioner's ship has been found, it's time for this band of brothers from Stillwater to be discovered outside the Upper Midwest, where they've gained notoriety via their 2018 single "Minnesota Girls" and rowdy live shows. The wry and high-wired rockers started 2022 with a string of winter dates that culminate with a release show for their eponymous third album. Produced by Soul Asylum and Semisonic collaborator John Fields, the record establishes Colin Campbell as one of the Twin Cities' most compelling rock 'n' roll frontpersons under 30.  (9 p.m. Sat., 7th St. Entry, 701 1st Av. N., Mpls., $15-$20, eTix.com.) CHRIS RIEMENSCHNEIDER Around the world The Minneapolis International Festival celebrates an array of cultures from around the globe. Featured performers and contributors include Nyttu Chongo, Kuyayki Peru, Chinese Heritage Foundation, Oromo Cultural Institute of MN and Spirit Boy Singers. Learn about the different cultures through exhibits and demonstrations. Food, art, clothing and accessories are also highlighted. ( 1-5 p.m. Sat. Free. Central Gym, 3400 4th Av. S., Mpls. 612-230-6400, minneapolisparks.org.) MELISSA WALKER Garrison Keillor Anyone who assumed Keillor would spend his golden years drifting aimlessly in a boat across Lake Wobegon doesn't understand what makes the man tick. As he approaches his 80th birthday, Minnesota's most famous storyteller is going anywhere and everywhere from Rhode Island to Colorado to keep the spirit of "A Prairie Home Companion" alive. Aside from a book-signing at St. Paul's Swedenborgian Church on April 9, there are no other Twin Cities appearances on the horizon for now. However, he will be stopping by Worthington, Minn., where he'll be warbling classic love songs with old friends Prudence Johnson and Dan Chouinard. (7 p.m. Saturday, Memorial Auditorium, 714 13th St., Worthington. $45, garrisonkeillor.com.) NEAL JUSTIN 'Earth Tomes' James Sewell Ballet has been busy. Two weeks ago, it showcased "New Works Project" at the O'Shaughnessy, then last week it premiered "Earth Tomes" in Bozeman, Mont., along with the Gallatin Valley-based chamber choir Roots in the Sky. Now, it brings that collaborative effort to town. The piece is set to Bach's "Jesu, meine Freude" and contemporary music works and performed inside projected imagery designed by Paul Herwig. The choir will sing works from its repertory, and in the first act, JSB resident choreographer Da'Rius Malone will present "Voyage" to live music by cellist Laura Sewell. (7 p.m. Fri. & Sat., Cowles Center, 528 Hennepin Av. S., Mpls. $30-$35, 612-206-3600, thecowlescenter.org.) SHEILA REGAN 'Dark White' For hours on end, imprisoned Turkish journalist Fevzi Yazici scribbles away in a dark prison cell, using only a ballpoint pen and paper. Arrested in 2016 as part of the government's crackdown on the media, his surrealist-inspired drawings are on view in "Dark White." He often employs a dotting technique in his works, exploring justice, injustice, freedom and confinement. The exhibit also includes excerpts from his diary and a new typeface, Firdevs, in honor of his wife. (Hillstrom Museum of Art, 800 W. College Av., St. Peter, Minn. From March 28, 9 a.m.-4 p.m. Mon.-Fri., 1-5 p.m. Sat.-Sun. Free. gustavus.edu or 1-507-933-8000.) ALICIA ELER Jonathan Biss and SPCO The St. Paul Chamber Orchestra resumes its itinerant Neighborhood Series with three concerts of chamber music featuring a favorite collaborator — pianist Jonathan Biss. After music of Robert Schumann and Brent Michael Davids, the program should reach a powerful climax with Olivier Messiaen's "Quartet for the End of Time." (8 p.m. Friday, Wayzata Community Church, 125 Wayzata Blvd. E., Wayzata; 7 p.m. Saturday, Capri Theater, 2027 W. Broadway, Mpls.; 3 p.m. Sunday, St. Andrew's Lutheran Church, 900 Stillwater Road, Mahtomedi. $26-$11, students and children admitted free; 651-291-1144, thespco.org.) ROB HUBBARD Jazmine Sullivan Often nominated but never a Grammy winner, this Philly R&B songbird is known for her intimate discussions of relationships. Her "Heaux Tales," which addressed everything from feminism to body shaming, made many best-of-2021 lists and earned album of the year trophies at the BET and Soul Train awards. The concept record was so triumphant that Sullivan followed this year with "Heaux Tales, Mo' Tales: The Deluxe." She is a deluxe vocalist. (7 p.m. Tue. Fillmore Minneapolis, 525 N. 5th St., Mpls. $93 and up, ticketmaster.com.) J.B. Genesis Owusu Falling somewhere between Childish Gambino, Janelle Monáe and Bad Brains, this futuristic Ghanaian-Australian electro-R&B singer/rapper grabbed of critical attention by covering a lot of sonic ground and meaningful themes around race and mental illness on last year's wild debut album, "Smiling With No Teeth." He could be fascinating but will at least be unpredictable on his first major U.S. tour. Obi Original opens. (8 p.m. Mon., Turf Club, 1601 W. University Av., St. Paul, $17-$20, eTix.com.) C.R. 'La Vérité' The French submission for the 1961 foreign film Oscar was once best known for behind-the-scenes turmoil, which reportedly led to nervous breakdowns for one of the courtroom drama's writers and at least two actors. Now, it's considered the last great film from the "French Hitchcock," director Henri Georges-Clouzot. Brigitte Bardot stars as a woman on trial for the murder of her lover, whose complex motivations are revealed in flashbacks. (7 and 9:30 p.m. Fri.-Sat., 3 and 5:30 p.m. Sun., Trylon Cinema, 2820 E. 33rd St., Mpls., $8, trylon.org.) CHRIS HEWITT  