Less than two weeks into Russia's invasion, 2 million Ukrainians have fled their country. The stunning number includes 1 million children — "a dark historical first," according to a tweet from UNICEF spokesman James Elder — underscoring the severity of the crisis unfolding from Russian President Vladimir Putin's illegal, immoral war. This number does not include those displaced by the Russian bombardment who remain in Ukraine. In fact, the refugee exodus would be bigger if more Ukrainians were granted safe passage from the indiscriminate attacks. But for the most part, few humanitarian corridors have been safely established, with negotiations between Russia and Ukraine bogged down on many issues, including on some of Russia's suggested routes: east, into Russia itself, or north, into Belarus, Russia's partner in (possible war) crime. That goes beyond cynical. It's sinister. Refugees could become prisoners or pawns in Putin's homicidal game of geopolitical chess. "Why would a Ukrainian who has experienced freedom, who lives in a democracy, give that up to live in an autocratic system?" Melinda Haring, the deputy director of the Atlantic Council's Eurasia Center, rhetorically asked an editorial writer. "That's not a legitimate offer." Instead, the only legitimate refugee route is west, to relatively safer cities like Lviv that have not yet faced Russian bombardment, or to neighboring nations that have without reservation or condition accepted Ukrainians in an inspiring display of compassion and comradeship to fellow Europeans. Poland, in particular, has been exemplary, becoming the top destination for Ukrainian refugees, according to the International Organization for Migration (IOM). Other bordering countries like Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and even the small nation of Moldova have come up big, too. From there, many Ukrainians have and will continue to stream to other European nations, including Germany, which was so generous in its response to refugees fleeing war-torn Mideast nations — unlike some neighboring nations that were far less welcoming than they are being with Ukrainians. The IOM reports that among the 2 million refugees are more than 103,000 third-country nationals. Disturbing reports persist, however, of refugees of color denied equal treatment by some Ukrainians desperate to get ethnic nationals out. To the degree this unacceptable practice still exists, it should stop immediately. Overall, however, "The welcome from the European Union, the neighboring European countries, has been unbelievable; there's been an outpouring of generosity," said Haring, who previously edited the Atlantic Council's "UkraineAlert" blog. "I think it represents the best of Europe. This is an opportunity for Europe to stand up and restate that democracy and human dignity matter." Russia is part of Europe, too. But its tactics are "reminiscent of medieval siege warfare, encircling cities, cutting off escape routes and pounding the civilian population with heavy ordnance," said Jonathan Gimblett, a member of Ukraine's legal team pressing the country's case at the International Court of Justice in The Hague. For its part, Russia said nothing. It didn't show up, unwilling to defend its brutality, which is creating not just Europe's fastest-growing refugee crisis since World War II, but a humanitarian crisis — soon to be a catastrophe — for civilians still trapped in Ukraine without water, heat, medicine, food and often basic shelter. The West is showing up, however, in an admirable rediscovery of its shared values. Not just in its welcome to refugees, but in its isolation of Putin's regime. On Tuesday, that strategy evolved to include the U.S. banning Russian oil and other energy imports. That necessary decision will inevitably be felt by consumers. But it's a relatively limited wartime sacrifice in the broader struggle between democracy and authoritarianism. And it's a small sacrifice compared to what Ukrainians are going through. As impressive as the West's response has been, it can always be better. It was encouraging to hear President Joe Biden say Tuesday that, "I've made it clear that the United States will share in the responsibility of caring for the refugees so the costs do not fall entirely on the European countries bordering Ukraine." That's the kind of solidarity needed to respond to a humanitarian crisis — and to help Ukraine defend itself from Russia's invasion.