VW's Microbus has been reborn as a groovy, electric spinoff. The long-awaited successor to its iconic 1960s Microbus has been dubbed the ID.Buzz under the brand's ID electric sub-brand. It promises to be the first all-electric minivan. At a recent unveiling, VW showed the two-row European version of the Buzz, which will go on sale in the third quarter of this year, with a long-wheelbase, three-row model to follow stateside in 2024. Aping the original, the Buzz will be hard to miss with its huge front VW logo, boxy shape, two-tone color scheme, sliding door and short wheel overhangs. True to its hippie roots, it will sport an interior full of sustainable materials like non-animal leather and organic paint. None of which will come cheap. Sticker prices are expected to run from $45,000 to $65,000 — or $10,000 over a comparable Chrysler Pacifica minivan. The Buzz is the production realization of the ID.Buzz concept that turned heads at the 2017 Detroit Auto Show. "The [Microbus] represents freedom and the democratization of mobility. With the ID.Buzz, we are transferring that DNA to the present day and thus into the era of electric mobility and sustainability," said VW design boss Jozef Kaban. The ID.Buzz will join the ID.4 in the U.S. market. The vehicles are based on the same Modular Electric Drive battery platform, but the Buzz will be considerably bigger than the compact ID.4 SUV, with a standard wheelbase of 117.6 inches, longer than that of the VW Atlas, the largest vehicle VW sells in the United States The U.S.-bound, long-wheelbase model will stretch to 127.5 inches, which is even longer than a full-size Chevy Tahoe mega-ute. Cargo area also beats Tahoe at a whopping 138 cubic feet. The stretched wheelbase will allow room for an optional, longer-range 111kWh battery. The ID.Buzz also is as tall as a Tahoe at 6 feet, 3 inches. But with its short overhangs, the V-dub's total length is comparable to the compact VW Tiguan at 185 inches. Minivan rival Pacifica is 204 inches long. Although likely to sell in smaller numbers than ID.4 given its lower-volume minivan segment, the Buzz might be just the conversation starter VW needs to compete with Tesla, which has dominated the small EV sector. The Microbus became an icon of the counterculture movement while sold in this country from 1950 to 1967. Drivers of the original sat on top of the front axle with their noses pressed to a windshield flush with the front bumper. To accommodate modern safety standards, that suicidal position has been moved back, but the Buzz still maintains the original cab-forward design. With its tiny gas engine hanging out the back, the Microbus boasted a cavernous interior (thus the bus moniker), and the ID.Buzz follows suit. Its battery will be under the floorboards. The standard 82 kWh battery promises 250 miles of range, the bigger 111 a healthy 357 miles. Like the ID.4 (and the '60s Microbus), Buzz will be rear-wheel-drive with a 201-horse electric motor putting out 229 pound-feet of torque. Top speed is 90 miles per hour, compared with the original's 72. Inside the Buzz's right-sliding side door (a second, left-side slider is optional), buyers will find a flexible interior. The three rows of seats can be removed to expand cargo room. The two-tiered front console offers storage — and can be moved between the second-row seats when configured as captain's chairs. Buzz will come in 11 color options and four two-tone options featuring Lime Yellow, Starlight Blue, Energetic Orange or Bay Leaf Green below the character line and Candy White common on top. The front cabin will be familiar to ID.4 consumers with a 10-inch tablet screen (12-incher optional) running the latest VW infotainment system. Touch sliders — controversial on the ID.4 — control temperature and volume. Less controversial will be wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, coveted by smartphone users. True to its mission as a family hauler, the Buzz bristles with up to nine USB-C charging ports. An array of safety features come standard, including front brake assist, lane assist and road sign display. Optional systems include adaptive cruise control, park assist and a surround camera view. More details on price, performance and options (like the camper package, complete with tent, sink and stove) are expected closer to the 2024 sales date. 