There are many good and smart people in America. After watching this week's attempt by some members of the U.S. Senate Judicial Committee to demean, diminish and discredit yet another Supreme Court nominee, it's a reminder why many good and smart people decide against subjecting themselves (and their families) to public service roles, leaving our government with fewer of our best and brightest in leadership roles. For the current nominee's hearing, (some) Republicans used their time trying to disparage the nominee; at the hearings of the other recent Supreme Court nominees, (some) Democrats demonstrated similar acrimony. Senators are expected to ask probing and challenging questions of the nominee. Thank you to those senators of both parties who ask hard questions respectfully, with no derision or disdain. Glenn Gifford, Detroit Lakes, Minn.  •••  Sen. Ted Cruz feigned astonishment that Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson was the only Supreme Court nominee ever who couldn't answer the question of how to define a woman. What he did not mention is that she was the only Supreme Court nominee ever to be asked that question. Dave Aronson, Morris, Minn.  •••  On the first day of the confirmation hearing, Cruz characterized the nomination of slave-owner Bushrod Washington as noncontroversial. Was that micro-aggression or regular aggression? I'm thinking it was overt, in-your-face aggression. Julie Risser, Edina   Twenty million dollars is not too expensive for Minneapolis to keep its sidewalks clear of snow. It would be money well spent for all of the reasons noted in the March 24 editorial "Of slack shovelers and city spending." The Star Tribune Editorial Board correctly points out that residents don't consistently clear their walks, and that this negligence makes navigating the city by foot difficult if not impossible for everyone, but most especially for those with compromised eyesight or in a wheelchair (there was no mention of the challenge uncleared walks pose to caregivers pushing strollers). But the proposal for the city to clear the walks is too spendy, the board argues, so let's try a feel-good volunteer program instead. Maybe lapel pins, certificates, or Girl Scout Cookies, since prizes will incentivize shoveling! Forgive my eye roll. All things considered, what's more costly than clearing sidewalks is continuing to subsidize and support vehicular traffic. Nobody questions money spent to clear roads — also a substantial line item in the city's budget — nor would anyone suggest residents themselves clear the roads in front of their homes; that would be absurd. Minneapolis has always budgeted for clearing streets, with a snow emergency protocol for parking in place to ensure getting it done as soon as possible after a large snowfall. Rightly or wrongly, we feel entitled to be able to navigate the city by car 24/7. Clearing sidewalks is just as important as clearing roads. Residents should feel equally entitled to navigate the city by foot 24/7, most especially because not everyone can afford to drive. A lot of people need to walk a few blocks to access public transportation, and that walk can be treacherous. Not everyone wants to drive, and these people should be supported, too. Encouraging people to opt for alternative forms of transportation — including walking — should be incentivized. Having fewer cars on the road would confer multiple benefits to society at large. It would mean fewer carbon emissions and possibly fewer road fatalities. It would reduce congestion and stress for those who opt to continue to drive. Twenty million to clear sidewalks would improve quality of life for so many residents. It might also help make Minneapolis' entire transportation network more efficient and easier to navigate. It's not too expensive. Sarah M. Risser, Minneapolis   Property taxes in Minnesota should rise only up to 3% per year and not be based on recent property sales in the neighborhood. It is an unfair system that penalizes long-term residents for the rising market. New buyers pay the increase by buying the home. Shouldn't that be enough for local governments? My assessment increased from $221,000 in 2020 to $224,000 in 2021 and now to $271,230 in 2022. That is a nearly $50,000 annual increase in north Minneapolis, where I hear gunshots frequently in the night and where illegal fireworks blast away all hours in the summer. What is going to happen if the value of my house jumps by $50,000 every year? Will it ever quit rising? I lived in Florida most of my life, and governments there were very good to their citizens concerning property taxes and did not allow them to rise more than 3% per year. That is a livable adjustment. Minnesota is a greedy state when it comes to taxation. Cynthia Syverson, Minneapolis   As a math teacher, I can say with certainty that a Tonka Bay letter writer's March 23 claim that only 0.1% of Minneapolis Police Department officers are "truly bad" is incorrect. In 2020, more than 0.1% of MPD officers were named "Derek Chauvin." A more reasonable estimate of the percent of bad MPD officers is around 70%, which is the percentage who voted for former union leader Bob Kroll. Matthew Byrnes, Minneapolis   So the most recently reported example of student racial/ethnic harassment occurred in Cloquet, Minn. (Minnesota section, March 24.) And before that it was Edina, and Prior Lake, and Lakeville, and … and … and … Clearly the offending students are not getting effective anti-discrimination messages at home, yet parents are demanding (a right they've always had!) to be able to review any educational materials that may make their children feel "guilty" for the historical mistreatment of others. I'd like to suggest that parents, individually or as study groups, begin to educate themselves as well as their children on the gaps that have been omitted from textbooks. A starting text could be "The 1619 Project," a well-researched and clearly written anthology of overlooked American history. Instead of protesting "critical race theory" and "woke culture," political dog whistles and misunderstood concepts that few have taken the time to research, perhaps parents could then begin to have informed conversations with their children and their children's teachers about the past and current impact of racism in American society. They could then move forward together with the schools to eliminate harassment and discrimination. Never forget that a child's greatest lessons are learned at home. Sally Wherry, Bloomington   A couple of recent letter writers have sought to remind us that the American flag represents all of us and not just one political faction. But they might have pointed out that, foremost, the federal flag is the emblem of the federal government — i.e., "the republic for which it stands," the entity that a lot ardent flag-wavers claim to despise. Patrick McCauley, Edina   U.S. companies that "ceased" doing business in Russia over the past month should also stop paying their employees there. High-level sanctions have failed to reduce or stop the slaughter war in Ukraine. Vladimir Putin needs heat from all sides, including an abrupt rise in unemployment and millions of irate citizens to deal with. Mary Forte, Minneapolis  •••  Pope Francis is a most forward-thinking pope. He doesn't represent a country that could produce chemical, nuclear warfare yet is powerful enough to take an international stage. His presence is widely viewed by all, and the percentage of Russian Catholics (most are Orthodox) might be following him, unlike smothered Russian news. NATO and Pope Francis equal hope and action. Patty McGough, St. Paul   Instead of shaming people for sleeping in on weekends (Readers Write, March 24), encourage later school and work start times so people don't have to fight their biology five out of seven days each week. Josiah Ferguson, Minneapolis We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here.