A state regulatory board for the first time has suspended the license of a Twin Cities plastic surgeon who has been repeatedly accused of molesting female clients during appointments spanning years. The Minnesota Board of Medical Practice's temporary suspension of Dr. Christopher Kovanda's license took effect Thursday and will be the subject of a closed-door hearing in the coming weeks. Either through complaints with the medical board or in lawsuits, at least six women have leveled sexual misconduct accusations since 2008 against the 56-year-old Kovanda, who was first licensed in Minnesota in 1999 and currently has clinic in Minneapolis at Lakeside Center on Excelsior Boulevard in Uptown. He's been reprimanded twice previously by the board, but until now never had his license suspended or revoked. Kovanda has been conducting a "medical practice that is incompetent," reads the suspension letter posted on the doctor's license verification page. The letter went on to accuse the doctor of "engaging in conduct with a patient which is sexual or may reasonably be interpreted by the patient as sexual, or [engaging] in any verbal behavior which is seductive or sexually demeaning to a patient." Messages were left with Kovanda for his reaction to the suspension, and his attorney, Nicole Brand, said "it would not be appropriate to make Dr. Kovanda available for an interview at this time." As for the many years of complaints against Kovanda, Brand said, "We believe the allegations are without merit, and we look forward to vigorously defending the matter at the hearing and on the merits." Jeff Montpetit, an attorney for a woman who is suing Kovanda for assault and medical malpractice, said he's pleased with the temporary suspension, but "frankly, it is long overdue ... I am not sure what took the board so long. I think that is a question they need to answer, but likely won't." Board Executive Director Ruth Martinez has said in the past that a temporary suspension requires the regulatory board panel "to perceive an imminent risk of serious harm. … It isn't something that is used lightly." Minneapolis attorney Michael Hall, who represents another woman suing Kovanda, said Thursday that "for a doctor to use his medical practice as a tool for luring women into a position where they are alone and vulnerable, so he can then do what he wants to them, is a deep betrayal of the doctor-patient relationship. Our lawsuit alleges exactly this." As a society in America, Hall continued, "We afford our doctors a position of trust and respect. We go to them for help, and we make ourselves vulnerable to them." Hall's client, who is at least the fifth woman to complain about Kovanda to the medical board, said Friday in an interview with the Star Tribune, "I was relieved that [the suspension] was finally happening. I didn't think it was possible. ... I hope that he never touches another human being again. I just want all his power taken away." The woman was in her mid-20s when she went to Kovanda at his Edina office in late 2019 for breast augmentation. She told the board that Kovanda disrobed her without asking during pre-operation examinations, touched his legs to hers, and placed his hands on her hips for too long a time. "Despite already being administered medications and an IV pursuant to [Kovanda's] orders, [the patient] pushed [him] away," the board said in a news release last fall. Filings made in court last month by her attorneys allege the doctor became aroused during an examination and repeatedly pressed himself against her feet, then he excused the nurse and did the same to her clothed genitals. One filing includes what it calls a "true and correct copy" of excerpts of a phone call between the woman and Kovanda in January 2020. Kovanda at first denied any improper contact, according to the transcript, before she said, "This is your last chance if you're not going to say you're sorry." "I'm sorry." "For what? What, what are you sorry for doing to me?" "For your feeling my penis pushed against you." Under questioning in a sworn deposition last month in connection with the lawsuit, Kovanda repeatedly denied the woman's allegations. The single mother to a kindergartner and accounting professional said Kovanda's conduct has been "very traumatic, and it's hard for me to be more social. It's definitely isolating when something like this happens." She said the experience has also strained relationships with some family members, "who just don't want to hear about it. I do have a small support system that's been amazing." Another woman told the board in November 2018 that Kovanda directed her to fully undress except for her high heels before he caressed her bare back and hips, pressed his groin against her from behind and then lifted her breasts in front of a full-length mirror. At other times, according to the woman, he touched her genitals while adjusting a postoperative garment and hugged her while her breasts were exposed. Before setting up his practice in Minneapolis, the doctor previously worked out of the 50th & France retail district of Edina as Kovanda Plastic Surgery and before that as a partner at Midwest Plastic Surgery in Edina's Southdale Medical Building. Kovanda has been investigated by police at least once — in that instance by Edina police — but never charged with a crime. When the medical board announced an investigation of Kovanda back in July, that cost him his surgical privileges at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis and the 13 other locations run by Allina Health. He had been practicing at Abbott since 2016.  