A 3M Co. executive has been charged with stalking a 24-year-old woman and peeping into the windows of her duplex home in Hudson, Wis. Robert T. Cesena, 48, of Hudson, was charged Monday in St. Croix County Circuit Court with felony stalking and misdemeanor disorderly conduct in connection with allegations that he snooped in the woman's ground-level windows this past weekend. Cesena was booked into jail Monday and released in lieu of $2,500 bail, and he is scheduled to be back in court on March 29. In the meantime, according to court records, Cesena has been ordered to stay away from the woman. Telephone messages were left Thursday with Cesena seeking comment on the allegations. A man who answered the phone at 3M headquarters in Maplewood said Cesena could not take calls at work because he is an executive. "3M has been made aware of the situation and is gathering further information as quickly as possible in order to determine [the] next steps," said 3M spokeswoman Jennifer Ehrlich. Cesena has been with 3M since the late 1990s, according to his LinkedIn page, which also says he's been in his current job as global key account vice president since September 2019. According to the charges, the woman told police that the incidents have been "ongoing and making her very uncomfortable" to the degree that she asked her boyfriend to stay with her overnight. She shared with an officer exterior home surveillance video from Saturday night that showed a man "sneaking up to her window and getting his face extremely close to her window trying to see through the [closed] blinds," according to the charges. A resident in the upper unit of the duplex told police that she saw a man in the yard on Feb. 27, Feb. 28 and March 4. Others in the neighborhood reported a man in a Mini Cooper who raised their suspicions last weekend as he drove around. Police located the vehicle and traced it to Cesena. Interviewed separately by officers at his home, Cesena and his wife gave conflicting accounts of his whereabouts and activities Saturday night. Officers took Cesena to police headquarters for further questioning, but he declined to speak without an attorney present. He was then arrested and booked into jail.  