Among the many layers of the tragedy unfolding in Ukraine is the flight of human beings — disproportionately women and children — seeking safety abroad. Even before the conflict began, there were over 1.6 million individuals in Ukraine having needs for protection arising from the Russian annexation of certain enclaves of the country, refugees and asylum-seekers, and stateless individuals. The U.N. High Commissioner of Refugees, the "quarterback" of the global refugee system, reports that over 1 million Ukrainians have fled their homeland and that the number is likely to climb. (To put this in perspective, imagine perhaps the entire population of Hennepin County having suddenly to uproot themselves with few possessions and to descend on new communities in unknown countries, dealing with a foreign language, new customs, lack of connections, the needs of children, the trauma of flight.) And this new wave of refugees comes on top of the more than 82 million individuals in the world who are already forcibly displaced and seeking protection. It was not until after the end of World War II, when the world confronted the atrocity of genocide, that international law formally recognized persecution as a legitimate ground for seeking protection. The 1951 Refugee Convention essentially created responsibilities within the global community to provide protection to individuals suffering from a well-founded fear of persecution from governmental action based on their race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion. But over time, this linear process based on governmental action directed at specific, classifiable population groups has given way to a widened scope of circumstances that justify the need to flee. We see displacement arising from fears of criminal gangs, unchecked discrimination, climate change that destroys traditional livelihoods, economic deprivation and food insecurity that disproportionately affect marginalized segments of society. But what are the options for those who flee? Given the mounting refugee numbers and popular resistance, resettlement nations have created restrictive quotas, inordinate processing delays and insufferable legal barriers that limit refugee inflows to a trickle. At the same time, the hazards and hardships in a refugee's home country are usually intractable, meaning that refugees cannot and should not be forced to return. This means that, realistically, refugees are left with a single alternative: To piece together their lives in countries where they more often than not exist as marginalized minorities, lacking stable legal status, struggling with the psychosocial scars of trauma and displacement, deprived of access to adequate housing, health care, jobs, sanitation and education, victimized in many instances by the more powerful, and in large measure abandoned by the global community. What can be done to address this alarmingly burgeoning crisis? First, the global community needs to recommit to the promotion of international human rights, not solely as a humanitarian value, but also as a utilitarian policy to stabilize population migration and staunch the increase in radical political activity that often arises among the dispossessed. Second, there need to be increased opportunities for communities and individuals to create meaningful refugee resettlement programs rather than viewing this solely as a governmental function. Third, there need to be complementary immigration pathways that integrate protection needs into national immigration objectives. Fourth, the private sector needs to see refugees as a highly desirable and motivated productive element in society. Innumerable studies have shown that refugees and their progeny achieve disproportionately high levels of economic and social success. Fifth, international organizations, governments and the private sector need to work in harmony to create durable solutions that will enable refugees to lead lives of fulfillment. Robert D. Aronson is chair of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society and an immigration attorney at Fredrikson & Byron in Minneapolis. The opinions expressed here are solely his own. 