I must disagree with Sen. Amy Klobuchar calling out Justice Clarence Thomas for an ethics violation for his sole dissent to releasing former President Donald Trump's records to a congressional panel investigating the Jan. 6 demonstration that turned violent ("Klobuchar: Texts by justice's wife show high court needs ethics rules," March 28). Current rules of order might need a review, but this is certainly not an appropriate case to pursue or support such action. Some might even interpret her remarks as racist political grandstanding, berating a Black conservative justice's family. Justice Thomas had no financial interest, no bribes, no criminal intent, no ethics violation. Thomas interpreted the U.S. Constitution in his usual conservative style, utilizing a lifetime of legal study and application, and offered his dissent for protecting confidential information, perhaps deemed executive privilege. Many still believe the 2020 election was unfair, and they had and have every right to offer their opinions — including Ginni Thomas. We are now struggling with a president's 34% approval rating and a stalled Congress of few accomplishments, which will only diminish further as election season gains priority focus. Finally, imagine every judge, politician, government employee and corporate leader being called out for ethics violations because of their wives' views. Simply ridiculous! Michael Tillemans, Minneapolis  •••  Chief Justice John Roberts is concerned with the integrity of the Supreme Court. The court has sunk to its lowest approval rating in history. This loss of public respect for the court's ability to sustain justice and democracy is linked to successful attacks on our democratic institutions by those who invest dark money into candidates, politics and policies. This effort to undermine our democracy was dramatized in the Republican-led deadly insurrection on our nation's Capitol on Jan. 6. Unfortunately, Ginni Thomas was part of that process both before, during and after the attack. This included 29 messages Thomas sent to Mark Meadows, White House chief of staff. Thomas has undermined the court's integrity, and more citizens recognize the threats to our commonwealth. Thomas is an active right-wing lobbyist who manages to bring together dark money and God. No one on the Supreme Court has stood up to protect the court from her overreach or access to political players while her husband makes judicial history. Roberts is responsible for the court's decorum. He has failed to quiet the dark money that speaks through Thomas. This leaves him three choices. Roberts can tell Justice Thomas to resign. He can encourage the House to impeach Justice Thomas for undermining the court's integrity. Or he can ignore the growing corruption of our democracy. Two of these options may restore a sense of institutional integrity. But as we confront war in Europe, an economic recession, our pandemic-eroded teamwork, growing inequality and a climate emergency, this is a poor time to lack leadership and integrity in a critical institution of our democracy. Bill Mittlefehldt, Duluth   I am a parent to three Minneapolis Public Schools students. I have a ninth-grader at Southwest High School, an eighth-grader at Anthony Middle School, and a kindergartner at Seward Montessori. We have lived in Minneapolis for 12 years, coming from a small North Dakota town, and despite the bad image Minneapolis can portray, it is the most open and caring community we live in, and I couldn't imagine living anywhere else. These last few years have taken a toll on the whole world, but I truly feel our children have had the worst of it. Despite this, they have continued to show resiliency, strength and courage where many adults have been unable to demonstrate the same. However, mental health crises and suicide rates are at the highest historically for children's age groups. The pandemic, the death of George Floyd and the spotlight on injustices are just a few of the things our children face in our city and across the nation. The teachers' strike was yet another blow with repercussions falling on our children's shoulders once again, and now, hearing that the district is extending each school day by 42 minutes and the school year until June 24 is going to be the breaking point for some kids and parents. We live in a state that has brutal winters where we can go weeks without seeing the sun or being able to be outside. Children of all ages need their summer break to recuperate from the long months, and to take part of that away from them feels like a punishment for decisions adults made ("Minneapolis teachers OK pact," March 28). For those kids who take summer school, that means they will have a very limited summer break. Adding 42 minutes will have a huge effect on the students who start their school day later, like my kindergartner. His bus does not return home until almost 5 p.m. If this time is added on, his bus have to drive through the main freeways from downtown during rush-hour traffic, and he will not be returning home until at least 6 p.m. and most likely later. How is that fair to our children? There have to be other solutions for our children to successfully finish their year as scheduled on June 10. I believe a focus group made up of parents, educators and administrators can create solutions that benefit everyone but put our children first. I am asking for you to consider other options for Minneapolis schools to make up instructional time that first and foremost benefits our children's mental health and stability. Karly Olson, Minneapolis  •••  I am the mother of four current MPS students with a fifth in the wings, and I need Gov. Tim Walz to put his money where his mouth is and work tirelessly to fully fund our schools. Our children have had their education and relationships disrupted over the past three school years due to COVID, their neighborhood on fire after one of their neighborhood police officers murdered George Floyd, the comprehensive district design disaster and now a strike. They have been through more than any other generation I can think of in this city in their young lives. We as a family believe these educational jobs should be paying a living wage equivalent to the important role these individuals play in shaping our future. We believe our children deserve a full-time nurse and social worker at every school. We believe our children deserve class-size caps to help give them the best chance possible now and in the future. The governor speaks of supporting public education and our children — it is time to show up and back it up with the funds needed. Make these jobs appealing so these talented people stay and draw our neighbors back into our schools through proper investment. The time is now. Katie Murray, Minneapolis  •••  While I am encouraged to hear that Minneapolis Public Schools have reached a tentative agreement with their K-12 teachers, I was shocked to learn that the adult education teachers in Minneapolis are not included in that contract. As a volunteer for Minneapolis adult education, I have witnessed firsthand the passion, care and dedication these teachers have for their students. Whether it is teaching English to immigrants so they can have a positive impact on their community, or helping adults earn their high school diploma and realize the opportunities that come with that achievement, these teachers are building the community from its very core. After seeing these contributions firsthand, I can honestly say that it only makes sense to include them in the K-12 contract. These tireless advocates are just as essential to the success of Minneapolis as their K-12 counterparts. Dane Peterson, Roseville   We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here.