  Give Children's Theatre Company credit for attempting to dramatize a pressing issue that raises big questions for kids, but the earnest "Something Happened in Our Town" is not quite there. Written by Cheryl L. West, whose terrific, big-issue "Last Stop on Market Street" appeared at CTC in 2018, "Something Happened" takes place just before and after a Black man is killed by a white police officer. West tells the all-too-real story in short, choppy scenes that alternate between a school and the homes of two families: the Hartleys, who are white, and the Perkinses, who are Black. But echoing the characters' confusion, the play offers few details about what happened. The families are united, at least for a time, by the friendship between classmates Emma Hartley (Lola Ronning) and Josh Perkins (De'Anthony Jackson) but a number of things contribute to an uneasy neighborhood. Josh's big brother Malcolm (Calvin Zimmerman) is an activist, who is picked up at a protest by Emma's uncle Manny, a cop. And, because they experience news of a police shooting very differently, it proves difficult for the families to communicate with each other. West lays out a wealth of talking points and director Timothy Douglas keeps things moving briskly, with the houses sitting side-by-side on stage. The play zeroes in on the moms as a place the families could connect, while revealing blinders that make that difficult. Emma's mother (Autumn Ness) and uncle (Dean Holt) come from a "blue family" where many became officers so they could be helpers. Josh's patient mom (Rajané Katurah) blogs about her family, fearing the dangers her boys face (as one character says, "Black men aren't valued for being strong and smart. We get killed for so much less.") I'm mostly talking about the adults here and that's part of the problem. "Something Happened" wants to help us understand how children experience tragic events but it's more comfortable with its grown-up characters. We meet Emma, Josh and Malcolm, as well as a handful of classmates, but "Something Happened" doesn't shed much light on their points of view and, as it moves toward a little-child-shall-lead-them finale, the kids suddenly stop bullying each other and become wise for no apparent reason. As I leafed through my program after the show, I was drawn to its exercises for kids, including prompts to write poetry or letters to the characters in the play. The issues raised in "Something Happened" continue to dog us and, obviously, there are no easy answers but it raises so many compelling questions that I found myself wishing I could read all the kids' programs to find out what they were thinking. 'Something Happened in Our Town' Who: By Cheryl L. West. Directed by Timothy Douglas. When: 7 p.m. Thu.-Fri., 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. Sat., 1 and 5 p.m. Sun. Ends March 27. Where: CTC, 2400 3rd Av. S., Mpls. Protocol: Masks and proof of COVID vaccine or negative test required for all patrons 12 1⁄2 or older. Tickets: $15-$63, 612-874-0400 or childrenstheatre.org.