   After a two-year pause during the pandemic, how sweet it is that the Galleria Floral Experience with gardens by Bachman's is back. And this year's theme comes with a sugar-coated twist. The show, which starts Sunday and runs for more than two weeks at the Galleria in Edina, features 100 varieties of flowers, plants and trees in almost two dozen blooming displays. To sweeten the deal, it also includes oversized candy sculptures. Located in the mall's common areas, the show spotlights nine confectionary vignettes, such as the Gummy Bear Garden, which features a 5-foot-tall gummy bear in a floral forest of hydrangeas, cineraria and Ivory Halo dogwood shrubs. Then there's the Ring Pop Garden, with a 20-foot-tall ring pop accented with azaleas, ivy and more. The Cotton Candy Garden boasts hyacinth, kalanchoe, ranunculus and blue spruce topped by cotton candy clouds floating above. The annual show — nearly a year in the making — requires some 1,800 spring-flowering bulbs to travel more than 4,000 miles to make their Twin Cities debut. "We secure the bulbs that come from Holland and they get planted in the fall. That's when the blooming plants all get started. So everything is flourishing in the greenhouse," said Susan Bachman West, Bachman's president. "There's a planning process that goes into the show from plant materials to [landscape architect] Bryan Kramer designing the space. It is truly a collaborative effort." Additional blooms and plants are cultivated and imported from Florida and California. When it's showtime, the Galleria clears out its common areas to make way for the display. "Everything you see in those main spaces [was] removed for Bachman's to come in and transform it into this beautiful immersive experience of scents and sights," said Rachel Oelke, the Galleria's marketing director. "Those flowers really take over for those 15 days." Many Galleria shops also get into the act, with garden-themed window displays and a larger-than-usual stockpile of floral products. The restaurants are featuring special menus, from salads with edible flowers to hibiscus drinks. This is the third time the flower show has been held at the Galleria. Previously, Bachman's cohosted the annual Macy's Flower Show. The 50-year tradition ended after the 2016 season following the sale of the department store's downtown location, where the event was held. "We're really excited to bring it back," Oelke said. "It always had been this much-needed first taste of spring. ... It's really a fun event for everyone, whether you're an avid gardener or a family with kiddos checking out all the cool candy installations. It's an extra sweet twist to the event this year." Galleria's Floral Experience with Gardens by Bachman's What: Self-guided tour open to the public during the 15-day run. When: March 27 to April 10. Shopping center hours. Where: Galleria, Edina. Admission: Free. Pro tip: Free valet parking for the show is available during mall hours at the east entrance, near CōV Restaurant. Additional info: bachmans.com or GalleriaEdina.com  