Andy Witchger suffered several concussions while playing high school, college and recreation league soccer. The last one left him so stunned and listless that he couldn't get out of bed. When he finally did, nature and photography led the 38-year-old out of the darkness. "Previous to my head injury, I was a very inward-focused person. Goal-oriented, driven by achieving things," said Witchger, who graduated from Edina High School and St. John's University. He now teaches religion at Benilde-St. Margaret's High School. You've read your complimentary articles for this time period.
  Subscribe now.
  Already a subscriber? Log in here. He took courses in photography and a naturalist course at Sugarloaf Cove Nature Center, where he started volunteering and catching, banding, releasing and recapturing birds. He got hooked on the education and conservation aspects of his newfound therapy. His own journey was inspired by witnessing tiny birds making their thousands-of-miles round-trip treks. "It was really peaceful, and it just opened these whole new worlds," he said. "I realized I had this hole in my life to fill, because sports had been my life. I started hiking, I started fly-fishing, and during that time I started birding more and more." He returned to teaching and started taking courses and researching at Sugar Loaf, Wolf Ridge Environmental Learning Center, and Hawk Ridge Bird Observatory. What's more, his budding photography skills made him an in-demand concert photographer for First Avenue and the State and Orpheum theaters. "I love teaching, I love the outdoors, and then just the fact that I got to be outside after what had been such a crisis for me, it kind of saved me," he said. "The larger parts of my identity were gone. My friends that I made through soccer, I wasn't seeing them. All of this was gone from my life and I needed to fill it in, and I found something that made me so happy, something that I probably would have made fun of maybe a decade before." Now many of Witchger's nights are spent in the woods of northern Minnesota, catching, tagging, photographing and researching owls. "Owls, as I'm sure most people are aware of when you see one, it's almost like a religious experience," he said. "They're really only active at night, and you're lucky to actually see or hear one. When you're doing the research, [at] Hawk Ridge for instance, we catch on average 1,200 owls a fall. So last season, I was working there and a couple of nights, I caught over 100 in a single night." Catching the owls — great horned, long-eared, barred, northern hawk, boreal, and more — "takes a lot of training and a lot of practice. You're out there with your nets, you catch them, you band them, and let them go. When you see them, their faces are so charismatic. It seems like they all have different personalities. Some of them look angry, some of them look happier, like they're laughing at you." When he's out there alone with the owls, does he ruminate on what led him there? "It was never intentional; it was never a goal of mine," he said. "None of these things were. But they all just kind of filled this empty space in my life that existed. They've probably been my biggest sources of joy. When you deal with a traumatic brain injury, your energy levels disappear, your desire to be social disappears. I'm an introvert to begin with, so there was almost nothing else to get me out of the house and to make me feel like I was involved in society other than that research or going to take pictures. "That really got me through some dark times, because another side effect of a traumatic brain injury is depression and anxiety. So, physical activity is going to help you. And then just those amazing experiences that you get seeing a new species, hiking a new trail, seeing a band playing an amazing set — all of those things give you that jolt that you need to carry you on to the next thing. "If it wasn't for those things, I can't imagine where my life would be right now." Jim Walsh is a Minneapolis freelance writer. 