The Farmington City Council has appointed Lynn Gorski, former assistant city administrator, to fill the city administrator role. Gorski will replace City Administrator David McKnight, who submitted his resignation in February after 11 years in the top job. Gorski served as Owatonna's human resources director for nine years before joining Farmington as assistant city administrator in July.  In that role, she's overseen liquor operations, communications, information technology and administration staff,  according to a city news release.   McKnight accepted a position as Dakota County's enterprise finance and information services director, which he was set to start in late March. In a statement, he called Gorski "an excellent choice to be Farmington's next city administrator."  Erin Adler Council member announces mayoral bid Richfield City Council Member Mary Supple announced that she intends to run for mayor, following Mayor Maria Regan Gonzalez's decision not to seek re-election. Supple, 58, was a teacher at Richfield Middle School for 33 years before retiring in June. She joined the council in 2019 and on Friday announced her candidacy for  mayor. "I love the people of Richfield and it's an amazing place to live," she said, adding that Gonzalez "is a wonderful leader" and she wants to "keep going in our forward progress." Supple said she plans to focus on  affordable housing, public art and economic development. She pointed to her work on the city's inclusion housing policy and prevailing wage ordinance as past accomplishments she hopes to build on. Kim Hyatt Author to share stories of ambulance service A retired paramedic and author will speak about his new book, "Ambulance Man" — a compilation of tales about his years with the Stillwater ambulance service — at the Washington County  Heritage Centeron Tuesday, April 5, at 7 p.m. Brian Casey, who was at various times an emergency medical technician, a paramedic and then a police officer, worked for the ambulance service when it was based in downtown Stillwater at Second and Mulberry Streets. The center will open at 6 p.m. for the event. No reservations are necessary. It will also be shown on Zoom and virtual attendees can register at wchsmn.org/event/ambulanceman. Matt McKinney Parking enforcement returns Police in Anoka resumed parking enforcement in the city's downtown on Friday after   a brief hiatus. "We were forced to reduce our parking enforcement due to staffing levels," said Chief Eric Peterson. "We have since hired and trained new parking enforcement officers." The city has about 1,700 parking spots in ramps, lots and on streets along Main Street with signs indicating the length of time parking is allowed or if a permit is required. Parking restrictions are enforced between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. weekdays, according to the latest parking brochure posted on the city's website. Parking is not allowed on any city street between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. daily. Fines are $16 for the first parking violation, $25 for the second within a 60-day period and $40 for a third violation in a 90-day period. Tim Harlow   