'Benjamin Franklin' In the latest chapter of his never-ending class on American history, Ken Burns focuses on  the eclectic genius who made enormous contributions to science, journalism, academics and politics. As usual, the acclaimed documentarian has more on his agenda than just ticking off his subject's accomplishments. This four-hour film, airing over two consecutive nights, takes the time to explore Franklin's inner battles, particularly when it comes to his thoughts on slavery and the relationship with his son, who remained a Loyalist throughout the Revolutionary War. Mandy Patinkin provides Franklin's voice. 7 p.m. Monday and Tuesday, TPT, Ch. 2 'The Outlaws' Ricky Gervais has benefited the most from the success of BBC sitcoms like "The Office" and "Extras.'  His onetime writing partner Stephen Merchant has carved out an impressive career, as well, most notably with the underappreciated film "Fighting With My Family." His latest project features seven low-level criminals (including a con man played by Christopher Walken) sentenced to the kind of community service that makes working in a paper company look like a beach vacation. Ignore the convoluted plot about a deadly turf war and enjoy the witty banter between the lovable misfits. Amazon Prime 'Trivia Quest' Netflix jumps on the quiz train with a new interactive game, based on an addictive app, Trivia Crack. Ignore the silly story line — something about saving prisoners from a screaming sword — and enjoy the moderately difficult multiple-choice questions, two dozen fresh ones every day through the end of April. Netflix 'Breaking the Band' Those not interested in the latest pop sensations may want to skip Sunday's 64th annual Grammy Awards and instead take a trip down memory lane with this returning series about groups that made beautiful music together — but didn't always harmonize off stage. Two new episodes focus on how both the Jackson 5 and Prince and the Revolution struggled because of the success — and demands — of their lead singers. 7 p.m. Sunday, Reelz 'Until the Wheels Fall Off' This Tony Hawk documentary opens with two minutes of the legendary skateboarder wiping out, over and over and over again. It's an odd, but appropriate, intro. The two-hour film is largely about Hawk's willingness to keep getting up. Director Sam Jones, who previously made movies about Bob Dylan and Wilco, brings a punk-rock attitude to the storytelling. 8 p.m. Tuesday, HBO  