My granddaughter escaped with her life at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012. Thus, I have been following the news about the lawsuit against Alex Jones and his painful assertions that the massacre of 26 (mostly first-graders) never happened. This had me recall how back in April 2013, listeners to the Twin Cities talk show "Davis and Emmer" heard Bob Davis on KTCN Radio (1130 AM) say the Sandy Hook families who lost loved ones could "go to hell" for infringing on his Second Amendment rights. Davis also said, "I'm sorry that you suffered a tragedy but you know what? Deal with it and don't force me to lose my liberty, which is a greater tragedy than your loss." At the time, I wrote about 30 letters to the show's advertisers to ask them to pull their ads. I heard back from just one advertiser who agreed with me. Meanwhile, it took four days for Davis to apologize, and he was not dropped from the show. I know we have free speech in this country. People seem to be able to say what they want to say. Perhaps back in 2013, out of anger I should have gone to the station and slapped someone à la Will Smith. But now Alex Jones has offered to pay millions to unsay what he said. The families have refused the cash to settle the case. You know what Alex? Just deal with it. Betty Beier, Edina   I think it is wonderful that the Minnesota Legislature and Gov. Walz are committing money to help find a cure for ALS ("For those with ALS, 'this bill means hope,' " March 31). However, if we're honest, a cure — if in fact it ever comes — is years in the future. The best thing we can do is help these people now with a dignified death. My 55-year-old son died last year of multiple system atrophy (MSA), a close cousin of ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). As you know, the death is really horrible — can't breathe, can't swallow, and so many other complications. Fortunately for him, our entire family and his many friends, he lived in Oregon, where there is a Death with Dignity law. He was able to pick his time and managed to avoid all the ugliness of a drawn-out death. It was a savior for all of us and such a blessing for him. Let us work on creating a compassionate death for people suffering with this cruel condition. We have warm memories of the day he died instead of watching him slowly die while suffering. Jane Schoening, Edina   I agree with the Star Tribune Editorial Board — we do not need either Minneapolis or St. Paul to clear every sidewalk ("Of slack shovelers and city spending," March 24). I run almost every day throughout the winter in St. Paul. Eighty-five percent of the walks are generally clear of snow fairly promptly after snowfalls. To solve the problem of the remaining 15%, the editorial makes excellent suggestions. But I have other concerns about sidewalks in winter. One of the biggest problems is sidewalks that, even if cleared of snow, are still icy. Why? Two reasons: First, at least in St. Paul, they are uneven. Not only is this a tripping hazard throughout the year, but there are low areas where water pools and, in winter, freezes. Second, many homes have downspouts that drain directly onto sidewalks. To eliminate ice, spend more money on improving the sidewalks and drainage. Cite homeowners who spout water directly onto sidewalks. Another big problem is the ridges of snow left by snowplows at intersections. Homeowners often don't shovel a path through these mounds. Climbing the ridges at each intersection is treacherous, especially if the path over the mound turns icy. The ridges are a blockade for anyone using a wheelchair, stroller or walker. Here is where the cities could do additional snow removal. The cities could use small front-end loaders to clear snow at intersections to ensure easy access across each street. These changes, coupled with the solutions suggested by the Editorial Board, would make navigating our sidewalks much easier. The cost would also be much less than city-funded, citywide sidewalk snow-clearing. John Lampe, St. Paul   In response to "It's cabins vs. campground as county debates lakeside RV park" (March 29), I — as a member of the Gun Lake Environmental Alliance — feel misrepresented. Most people in the alliance are not opposing the campground. We just want it to be the appropriate size for our small Aitkin County lake and are asking for an environmental assessment worksheet (EAS). The developer is proposing 22 RV sites on a wetland shore with 22 slips and a boardwalk on a 712-acre lake. (To give some frame of reference, Lake Minnetonka is 14,000 acres.) It's also concerning to me that large septic holding tanks would need to be buried and emptied frequently (depending on frequency of use). The article is making a rich-vs.-poor argument, when really it's a dispute as to whether a developer who may potentially profit at the expense of the environment should be allowed to follow through with a plan without first having an EAS performed. An environmentally sound plan would protect the developer's own investment, because he would be ensuring clientele for years to come. Mary Larson, Maple Grove   I was struck by the March 31 headline "Mariupol civilians deported to Russia." The story is about the forcible removal of Ukrainian civilians by enemy Russian forces. Deportation is about the expelling of a foreigner from a country by the legitimate government. A more accurate headline: "Mariupol civilians forcibly taken by Russian troops." Gail Chang Bohr, St. Paul   Hey, basketball fans. Last month was March Madness. Not just for college teams, but for high school, too. I have watched dozens of games and I have been astonished by one thing: Nobody uses the backboard anymore. It's maddening! Each team would get an additional eight to 10 points a game if they would just bank it off the glass instead of going in for the finger roll. Using the backboard takes spin off the ball, which knuckleballs down into the basket. It also helps to prevent a defender from blocking the shot and risking a goaltending infraction. In the rare occasion that players actually use the backboard, they do it incorrectly — they don't go high off the glass at the intersection of the lines like we were taught back in the old days. Instead they lay it up just barely above the rim. Those are the worst ones that roll off the rim and make me want to pull my hair out. If anyone reading this knows a basketball coach, please say something to them so I don't lose my mind. Thanks. Chris Edwards, Minneapolis We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here. 