Abbott Laboratories' profit jumped by more than 36% last quarter on heightened demand for the company's at-home COVID test kits, the company reported Wednesday. The medtech and diagnostics company reported a quarterly profit of $2.4 billion, or diluted earnings per share of $1.73, well above the $1.47 Wall Street analysts expected. Abbott's $11.9 billion in revenue for the quarter, ended March 31, rose 13.8% compared to a year ago. COVID-19 testing sales remain a significant part of the company's current business. Pandemic-related sales tallied $3.3 billion in the first quarter — 27.7% of its total revenue. Abbott makes the popular BinaxNOW test, which saw soaring demand early in the quarter as the Omicron variant spread rapidly at holiday gatherings and childcare centers. The federal government also ramped up its effort to make such at-home tests free and more widely available during the period. When excluding COVID-related products, worldwide sales were up 3.9% for the quarter; organic sales from existing operations rose 7.7%.  The company's stock was up slightly in midday trading Wednesday. Earlier in the day, investors sent the stock down, disappointed Abbott maintained its full-year guidance despite the robust first quarter results. "We aren't surprised to see a more conservative stance taken by management given the nutrition recall," said J.P. Morgan analyst Robbie Marcus, referring to the Similac infant formula recall. Abbott is working closely with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, chief executive Robert Ford told analysts on its Wednesday morning earnings call. The company has four core business categories: nutrition, diagnostics, pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Abbott's diagnostics division, which includes COVID tests, saw a 35.1% gain in organic sales during the quarter. Organic sales of pharmaceuticals were up 13.4%; organic sales of medical devices were up 11.5%. The nutrition group, which includes recalled products, lost ground with a 4.4% drop in organic sales. Within medical devices, the company saw double-digit sales gains in four of its seven categories: electrophysiology, heart failure, structural heart and diabetes. The strongest growth was in diabetes care, where organic sales were up 20.4%. Throughout the call, Abbott leaders encouraged company watchers to analyze the numbers without their circumstantial outliers, like COVID testing or the impact from the infant formula recall. When excluding those events, Ford said, "Our base business grew 11% in the quarter." Illinois-based Abbott acquired St. Paul-based St. Jude Medical Inc. for $25 billion in 2017. The company now has approximately 5,000 employees in Minnesota. The company declared its 393rd consecutive dividend, a streak lasting since 1924.