I have been following the teen crime and violence gripping our city, and the death of Deshaun Hill is heart- and soul-crushing. Why people are killing each other is hard to understand. I am also angry. However, I cannot entirely agree with the letter writer ("Minneapolis is failing our kids," Feb. 12) who is blaming Mayor Jacob Frey, our Police Department and the city of Minneapolis for failing to keep our community safe as somehow the entire reason people have access to guns and are on the streets in the middle of the day using them on each other. From my perspective, two groups that aren't being assigned enough accountability for their part in the problem are parents/guardians and the gun lobby. I unequivocally agree that parents and guardians shouldn't have to worry that their children will make it home from school alive. But equally, parents and guardians need to make sure their children don't have a gun tucked under their mattress and aren't on a street corner in the middle of the afternoon using it. The Minnesota gun lobby and our Republican-led state Senate continue to block gun safety legislation, worried that gun ownership will become difficult for responsible adults. Instead their efforts only ensure that guns will always be easy for our young people to acquire. There are a lot of players who own a piece of the problem, not just Mayor Frey and the MPD. If we don't acknowledge that, we can't fix it. Lisa Weisman, Minneapolis  •••  The letter "Minneapolis is failing our kids" must be challenged. Should we expect the MPD to solve society's problems that land in its lap? The MPD is the easy bogeyman. But it's not that simple. How many adolescent criminals perpetrating violence live in two-parent households? Do their "caregivers" provide a loving, nurturing and disciplined environment? How many are staying at home in the evening, doing homework and getting to bed on time? MPD officers have a dangerous and thankless job. We need to look inward, not outward, for real and lasting solutions. Let's keep perspective. Charles P. Corcoran, Stillwater   John Widen asks an excellent question about city transportation ("Who are we planning for?" Opinion Exchange, Feb. 10). We do not operate in a bubble in Minneapolis and ought to learn from other cities. In Victoria, British Columbia, the B.C. Human Rights Tribunal upheld a complaint by the Canadian Federation of the Blind about bus stops that require transit riders to cross a bike lane to catch a bus. These pedestrians can't hear the sound of oncoming bicycles. "There's a real pro-cycling and healthy living agenda at the moment, and we're all for it — blind folks believe in cycling as a healthy way of living — but it shouldn't be at the expense of somebody's safety and the ability to use public transit," in the words of Oriano Belusic, vice president of the CFB. Please let us keep our city as inclusive as it can be on as many levels as it can be. William A. Levin, Minneapolis  •••  To the commentary writer who believes that bike commuting is not an option for families: I bike my toddler to day care, the park and the grocery store. It's not difficult for my family, and I know other families that do the same. Biking is not for everyone, but neither is driving. Do you know where my family won't bike? Hennepin Avenue. Despite being within biking distance, biking on Hennepin is too dangerous for my family. Nobody is asking to ban cars on Hennepin. We're just asking to be given the option of biking safely. As to the letter writer's concerns about transporting multiple children to different schools, I suggest researching a newfangled invention called the "school bus." I don't understand parents and grandparents who oppose even the most minor climate-change-amelioration efforts. How can you claim to love your grandchildren while destroying their future? Matthew Byrnes, Minneapolis  •••  I'm so jealous! John Widen wrote the commentary I've been writing in my head for weeks now. I'd only add a couple of things: I've been driving down Hennepin for over 60 years on the way to work at various Minneapolis locations, and in the last 30 years I've probably seen 25 bikers in the morning when I go to work, never once on the 28th Street route. I keep looking for the line item in our city budget that says how much revenue bike taxes bring in. Otherwise, who is paying for those bike lanes? (Not a rhetorical question.) I'm not against biking; since I started raising a family in Minneapolis I've had 16 bikes stolen — but who's counting! Since living in the Uptown area, I've lived in Carag, East Isles, Whittier, the Wedge, East Bde Maka Ska and before that on 38th Street and 3rd Avenue, so I count myself as a real south Minneapolis gal. Thanks, Mr. Widen, for the well-written commentary. Nora Norby, Minneapolis  •••  A recent letter writer questions the appropriateness of creating bike lanes because of Minnesota's winter weather ("Discrepancies abound," Feb. 13). Like many bike commuters, I actually ride my bicycle year-round. As for our fabled "six months of winter": Snow has generally been a significant issue in recent years for only about half that time. So long as the roads are plowed, the bike lanes continue to be useful for many riders. Moreover, I have yet to encounter a day when it has been too cold for me to ride. Barrett Fisher, Mounds View  •••  Right on, John Widen. Bravo. Good intentions are not enough. Blindly following an ideology when implementing real policies affecting people's lives while at the same time ignoring or dismissing inconvenient competing facts and concerns is a recipe for disaster. That seems to be the way City Hall operates. Yes, we need to reduce or eliminate fossil fuel usage. However, I do not think that forcing changes in behavior by governmental decree will make much difference in global warming at this point. At least not enough difference to justify the radical changes in transportation options as discussed by Mr. Widen. A similar issue arises with the city's elimination of zoning controls. The city has decreed that single-family homes can be eliminated to be replaced by higher-density multiunit dwellings. The reasons for letting developers come in and destroy perfectly good homes are unclear, beyond just making more housing at any cost in the middle of a so-called housing crisis. Who decided that residents should not live in single-family homes with mature trees, yards and gardens? Who decided that low-income residents only want to live in multiunit dwellings? Who decided that residents want a more crowded and congested city? Not everyone is single or able-bodied, can ride a bicycle year-round and has no need for a car. Eliminating zoning does nothing to solve the societal problem of income inequality, and in fact makes it almost impossible for someone of modest means to build some wealth by owning a home. Now, developers and investors are pricing ordinary people out of the market, in many instances. Balancing competing interests was and is never going to be easy. At the least, the city must give fair consideration to all options and, most important, not do more harm than good. That includes quality of life in the city and the overall environment. John O. Wild, Minneapolis   Regarding "Probation for man who set fire to St. Paul school" (Feb. 9): Interesting. This person attempted to burn down a school, damaged multiple businesses and ended up with probation. Do you understand why we doubt the prosecutors in this state? David W. Ausmus, Bloomington   We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here.