TORONTO — The Wild and Maple Leafs are two of the most offensive-minded teams in the NHL. Their head-to-head battle on Thursday suggested otherwise. A low-scoring, tight-checking battle broke out, and the change suited the Leafs to the tune of a 3-1 win in front of 9,410 at Scotiabank Arena that dropped the Wild to 1-2 ahead of the finale of its four-game road trip. Toronto's Auston Matthews erased a 1-1 tie 10 minutes, 22 seconds into the third period with his league-leading 36th goal and second of the night, a finish that held up amid a 29-save performance by goaltender Petr Mrazek. Alexander Kerfoot added an empty-net goal with 42 seconds to go. For the Wild, Kaapo Kahkonen made 22 stops in suffering just his second regulation loss over his past 11 starts. This was his first career game against Toronto, which has the fourth-best offense in the league, but Kahkonen wasn't tested early. He didn't face a shot until more than halfway through the first period and finished the frame with just five saves. At the other end, Mrazek wasn't much busier, making six stops, but the action opened up a bit more in the second. That's when the Wild, which ranks third in the NHL in scoring, finally ended the stalemate at 8:37 on a Frederick Gaudreau one-timer off a behind-the-net feed from linemate Matt Boldy. Gaudreau has 10 points in his past 12 games, while Boldy has three in his past three. Kevin Fiala also had an assist on the goal, his third helper and sixth point during a three-game point streak. But the Wild's lead was short-lived. On the next shift, Toronto answered when Matthews scored off the rush for his 35th goal. After that, both teams had chances on the power play to move ahead, but neither team took advantage. Actually, some of the Wild's best looks in the period came while shorthanded, including a shot in front by Connor Dewar that Mrazek kept out; credit Ryan Hartman's tenacious effort on the PK for instigating the pressure. Early in the third, the Wild received another power play — its fourth of the night — but still couldn't convert. Kahkonen remained steady, deploying his glove to stop Matthews in tight and two shots from Rasmus Sandin while the Wild was scrambling in its end. That was the beginning of more consistent play in the Wild's zone, and Toronto eventually capitalized on the shift. After taking the puck away from Brandon Duhaime, Matthews skated into Wild territory, fed the puck to Mitch Marner and buried the return pass to move ahead of Edmonton's Leon Draisaitl for most goals in the league. With around 2 minutes remaining, Kahkonen went to the bench for an extra attacker, and Wild even called a timeout to strategize. But it still couldn't pull even with the Leafs despite its prowess with an empty net; the Wild leads the NHL in 6-on-5 goals with 14. The Wild fell to 7-2 when tied after two periods. This result split the season series with Toronto after the Wild won the first meeting 4-3 in overtime on Dec. 4 at Xcel Energy Center. The Wild concludes its trip Saturday at Calgary, which is first in the Pacific Division and near the top of the Western Conference.    