When Western reporters ask Ukrainians what they want, whether they live in Kyiv, Kharkiv or the U.S., they respond: peace! War would take place on Ukrainian soil at the cost of unimaginable suffering and destruction. Sanctions are a costly prospect for other European countries, which get much of their gas and oil from Russia. And many Russian citizens are equally weary of armed conflict. But how to get to peace? At a webinar organized in November by the Russian-American Business and Culture Council (RABCC), a Twin Cities institution, Ukrainian Prof. Alexander Komarenko of Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv, stated that there can only be a political solution to the Ukrainian-Russian conflict. The former Fulbright fellow at Hamline University added that this would take decades. He urged his audience to remember the French-German rapprochement as a precedent for dialogue, and German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer's formula for reunification in the 1960s: "Work, work, work." The U.S. portrays itself as the upholder of the international order, a network of multilateral institutions and agreements adjudicating disputes nonviolently and according to the rule of law. It encouraged Western European rapprochements after World War II wisely, by asking the Marshall Plan's 18 beneficiaries to devise their own multilateral plan for the disbursement of U.S. aid. It also supported, despite British opposition, establishment of the European Coal and Steel Community, which laid the foundation of trust and cooperation necessary for the peaceful return of the French-occupied Saar to West Germany. The U.S. strategy in post-WWII Western Europe can be summarized in three words: "Winning the peace." Does the U.S. adhere to this tradition in Eastern Europe today? Several other think tanks and civic associations, besides RABCC, have been debating the issue in the Twin Cities, although these fruitful dialogues have not included so far some of the 50,000 Americans of Russian descent and 17,000 Americans of Ukrainian descent living in town. Some argue that, by relentlessly announcing that a Russian attack is "imminent" and that a "large-scale invasion looks near," the U.S. has engaged in a dangerous rhetoric of self-fulling prophecy. Why not take Russian denials of hostile intent at their word? Nothing encourages a bully more than to predict that he will soon do worse. Critics worry also about the impact of U.S. media, which cite "updated U.S. military and intelligence assessments" to predict up to 50,000 civilian deaths, the "decapitation of the Ukrainian government" and 5 million refugees fleeing westward in case of a Russian invasion (StarTribune.com, Feb. 6). Such assessments may not be accurate; the invasion of Iraq, remember, was justified by bogus threats of weapons of mass destruction. Others point out that there has been too little attention given to the Minsk agreements, which Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France agreed to in 2014 and 2015, in order to end the war in Eastern Ukraine between secessionists supported by Russian forces and the Ukrainian army. The conflict has caused over 13,000 deaths and 1.5 million internally displaced Ukrainians so far. The agreements have been only partly implemented and require much more work, as French, German and Polish leaders acknowledge. More attention also must be paid to the work of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) which has observers watching for violations of the border dividing Ukraine from the Eastern Donbass secessionist region even today. As European leaders were meeting in Berlin on Feb. 10 to seek diplomatic solutions, public radio interviewed Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman exclusively in terms of the U.S.-Russian relationship. Ukrainian leaders were not mentioned once by Sherman, and reference to "our allies" and the "Eastern flank" was left vague without the names of the specific countries involved. The U.S. should more energetically support European efforts to resolve the confrontation on the Ukrainian border nonviolently. Once the U.S. knew how to deploy imaginative proposals and schemes beside the threat of force. Could the Twin Cities' internationally minded associations help think through, with the contribution of local Russian Americans and Ukrainian Americans, policies that revive the U.S. tradition of winning the peace, the hallmark of an effective foreign policy? Catherine Guisan is a visiting associate professor affiliated with the Department of Political Science, University of Minnesota.      