"You only get one shot, do not miss your chance to blow. This opportunity comes once in a lifetime," Eminem reminded the world during Sunday's Super Bowl LVI. "Would you capture it, or let it slip away?" he rapped in "Lose Yourself," his hyper-urgent anthem from 2002. Halftime at the Super Bowl, billed as the year's biggest musical moment, offered a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for hip-hop. While it's America's most popular musical genre (28% market share at the moment), hip-hop has played no more than a bit role at TV's most dominant event. (Rappers Queen Latifah, Nelly, P. Diddy, Travis Scott and Missy Elliott have all made cameos in previous years.) Hip-hop starring at halftime is as rare as two Black head coaches on the Super Bowl sidelines — something that's happened just once (in 2007). But on Sunday, hip-hop took over the field for the very first time. The A-list lineup was smartly chosen by rap mogul Jay Z, whose Roc Nation produced the halftime show: Dr. Dre, 56, godfather of West Coast hip-hop; Snoop Dogg, 50, the comical prince of pot who somehow became Martha Stewart's bestie; Mary J. Blige, 51, the queen of hip-hop soul; Eminem, 49, the bestseller who took hip-hop to the mainstream; Kendrick Lamar, 34, today's premier rapper and the only hip-hop artist to receive a Pulitzer Prize, and unadvertised guest 50 Cent, 46, the early-'00s hip-hop hero turned actor. Despite special moments, the nearly 14-minute show lacked the extravagant choreography and the visual pizazz of other recent Super Bowl intermissions. Most of all, it begged for a focal point. With an ensemble cast, the spotlight was a revolving door, though Dr. Dre was the thread since he produced or co-wrote nearly every number in this seamless medley. The show opened with a closeup of Dre's fingers on the mixing board before he launched into his 2000 hit "The Next Episode" with Snoop. An imaginative staging accommodated the frequent churn. The set suggested a Compton streetscape, with performers popping up on the roof and inside a series of five rooms — including the devalued and beefy 50 Cent, who started his surprise appearance hanging upside-down from the ceiling as he murmured his way through 2003's "In Da Club." Blige commanded the rooftop, pouring her heart into a pair of 2001 hits, "Family Affair" and the uber-emotional "No More Drama." Lamar then took control on the field, performing his 2015 protest anthem "Alright" (with sanitized lyrics), surrounded by a phalanx of male dancers with gray hair and sashes declaring "Dre Day." Eminem, with a live band including drummer Anderson .Paak, exhorted with uncompromising force on "Lose Yourself." At song's end, the halftime's lone white performer took a knee, like many football players have done in protest, in solidarity with the Black community. Joined on the rooftop by all the hip-hop heroes, Dre — the L.A. producer extraordinaire and now billionaire behind Beats by Dre headphones — wrapped the show with 1999's "Still D.R.E.," a song about how hip-hop has changed but he still has love for the streets of 213, his hometown of Los Angeles. As an ending, it felt more like a self-aggrandizing whirl than the usual halftime wow. So who was the musical winner of Super Bowl LVI? It was another Black performer, National Anthem singer Mickey Guyton. A multiple Grammy nominee who has been on the verge of country stardom for a couple of  years, she hit her high notes, elongated key words and eventually took "The Star-Spangled Banner" to church. Guyton did country music — and her own country — proud.  