When President Joe Biden stands before Congress on March 1, he should do so not as a politician proposing a grand domestic agenda — but as a focused commander in chief leading our nation in a fight against the greatest domestic health and economic challenges we've faced in decades. The president gave his first address to Congress less than 100 days into his presidency. Looking ahead to a future with the pandemic in the rearview mirror, he laid out his vision for the next year. Unfortunately, one year later, our nation is still thinking about and finding our way to a new normal in the COVID-19 era. And, because of that, we find ourselves in a moment that demands an executive with laser focus. It's true that America's economic growth overall expanded at a record rate last year. Unemployment was at 3.9% by the end of last year and wages are up for many. But until American lives are back to something close to normal, it will be nearly impossible for them to hear, truly hear, what's going well. My constituents are exhausted and frustrated. They are still trying their best to avoid the latest COVID variant. Gas prices and grocery costs are up, and school closures have left parents to deal with uncertainty for months on end. It's been difficult for many people to access reliable testing for COVID-19. Many small businesses are struggling to survive, more than two years since the first case of COVID-19 was identified in the U.S. Crime is up, even in the suburbs. We must address those issues impacting day to day lives today — and every day until lives are back closer to something resembling normal. Simply put, the American people deserve a laser focus from elected officials on the public health, public safety and economic impact of COVID. Mr. President, lay out the plans to keep our kids in school, to grow the economy, to fix the supply chains and overcome staffing shortages. Detail plans that will lower costs for working families, expand testing in every community and help small businesses stay afloat. My constituents need to be reassured that the nation is making the right investments to ensure that we aren't caught flat-footed if, and when, the next variant emerges. We in Congress must come together and enact legislation designed to tackle inflation, including holding corporations who are using the pandemic to gouge consumers accountable. We must fix the issues with our nation's supply chain, simmering for decades and accelerated by the pandemic, by working to make the America Competes Act law and increasing production of vital goods here in the U.S. We must cut taxes on the smallest businesses that have been hurt the most by the economic impact of COVID and take up a targeted relief package that allows small businesses to request much-needed federal assistance. We must acknowledge the rise in crime in our communities, and work to support law enforcement as well as address the mental health and addiction crises that are exacerbating these issues. We also must enact common-sense reforms, like banning choke holds and restricting the use of no-knock warrants. We must focus on reducing the cost of health care and prescription drugs. For too many Americans, too much of their hard-earned income is going straight to the bottom line of pharmaceutical companies. Today and after the president finishes addressing the joint session on March 1, we as lawmakers must focus on the disruptions that this pandemic has brought to daily life and help us find our new normal. And that means all of us — Republicans, Democrats and independents. The problems we face aren't partisan problems. They're American problems — and the only way America wins is by tackling them, focused, together. Angie Craig, a Democrat, represents Minnesota's Second Congressional District in the U.S. House. 