  HGTV's Mina Starsiak Hawk, who was born and raised in Indiana, is a Midwesterner through and through. So it's no surprise that she brings an accessible Midwest sensibility to her hit show "Good Bones."  The series, currently in its sixth season, follows Starsiak Hawk, a renovation expert and real estate agent, and her mother, Karen E Laine, a lawyer, as they transform old homes in their hometown of Indianapolis. She'll talk about those projects and more during an upcoming appearance at the 2022 Minneapolis Home + Garden Show. After taking a year off during the pandemic, the show is back for a five-day run with more than 400 experts and exhibitors showcasing gardening, remodeling and home decor ideas. Highlights include an Idea Home with a Minnesota farmhouse theme, several feature gardens and a Backyard Lounge. Twin Cities artist Drew Beson will display his abstract paintings and give a live demonstration. We talked with Starsiak Hawk, who will take the main stage at noon on March 4, about creating livable homes, the color gray and her advice for anyone undertaking a home renovation. The conversation has been edited for length and clarity. Q: How does your Midwestern sensibility spill over in your home projects? A: Every style of design we do — whether midcentury or urban farmhouse — we do it in an approachable, livable way. Some places you walk into and feel like you should be wrapped in plastic and not touch anything. You'll never feel like that in one of our spaces!  Q: What home trends are you most excited about? A: I don't really follow trends. We try to stick with more timeless styles. But I do love that the warmer neutrals are coming back around versus the huge boom we saw in the cool, gray tones.  Q: In Season 7 of "Good Bones" you're going solo. What can we expect out of new episodes, which air this summer? A: New, wild projects but with the whole added element of trying to work during COVID takes our regular daily problems and amplifies them!  Q: They say a home remodeling project can make or break a relationship. You and your mom seemed to have a lot of fun working together during your six seasons together. A: We are like any mother-daughter and have definitely had our ups and downs! Mom's retired now, so it's a bit easier because the two of us are no longer butting heads. LOL.  Q: What advice would you give to someone thinking of buying and renovating a home? A: Never skip an inspection! And if your potential home isn't new construction, spend the extra couple hundred dollars for a sewer scope.  Minneapolis Home + Garden Show When:  Noon to 8 p.m. March 2-3; 10 a.m.-8 p.m. March 4-5; 10 a.m.-6 p.m. March 6. Where: Minneapolis Convention Center, 1301 2nd Av. S., Mpls. Tickets: General admission $12 online, $14 at the door; $5 admission after 5 p.m. Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday at the box office. Additional info: homeandgardenshow.com