This Black History Month I've been doing a lot of reflecting. The Twin Cities is full of incredible artists, creators and entrepreneurs who are Black, Indigenous and people of color, but there are still considerable hurdles keeping many of them from succeeding or reaching a wider audience. As a small-business owner, a mother and a woman of color, I know how integral supporting local businesses is to raising up our communities and reducing the barriers to success for BIPOC entrepreneurs. A major hurdle to success that many BIPOC entrepreneurs face is lack of capital. There are often fees associated with having your product in a shop, to say nothing of the expense related to getting your name out there; advertising and websites all require significant capital, which many people simply don't have when they are just starting out. My own goal as a business owner of color has been to create a platform that was accessible to artists and creators of all colors. I reached that goal last year when I opened The Dream Shop in north Minneapolis, a place that features North Side and diverse artists from around the Twin Cities. I was able to provide this platform for BIPOC artists through a partnership with the Folwell Neighborhood Association, which gave me access to the retail space on Fremont Avenue. With the help of social media, through Facebook groups like "Shop Northside: Supporting North Mpls Businesses and Artists," I have been able to find and connect with unique artists from all over the Twin Cities and build relationships with people I have met through the group who are eager to support not only my North Side business but other BIPOC creators as well. Minneapolis is an eclectic city that thrives with the hard work and imagination of BIPOC entrepreneurs just like me and the many artists you can find in my shop. This Black History Month, and every month, I challenge you to take the time to find the diverse creators and businesses in your community and support them. Markella Smith, Minneapolis  TRUMP Among the various nefarious activities by Donald Trump were disrupting the general election, establishing a sliding scale of value on his properties, giving large tax relief to high-rollers — and not turning over all the White House records while tearing up a great many, taking home 15 boxes of them, and flushing others down the toilet ("Gaps are found in Trump call logs," Feb. 11, and "Trump took secret papers when he left, agency finds," Feb. 10). After pardoning a few of his friends, no wonder he wanted to pardon himself. Norman and Ilene Holen, Richfield  •••  So what? Much has been said regarding the blatant disregard by the past president of laws and regulations. Now we are learning of the shredding of documents and other important items related to the insurrection of Jan. 6. My question is, so what? I have become cynical enough to wonder what consequences he might face if he in fact did this. The journalists have spent great amounts of time detailing this, but recent facts suggest that little will come of it. Beyond the shame of having this brought to the light of day, there appears to be little or nothing in the way of consequences. Jim Conn, Maple Grove   Since when did facing the consequences of your actions become censorship? Michael Graham's piece on censorship "Censorship is for crybabies" (Opinion Exchange, Feb. 8) misses the point. A flood of artists and customers abandoning Spotify for standing by Joe Rogan despite his racism and dangerous medical misinformation isn't censorship. It's the free market at work. Rogan is free to spout foolishness. Spotify is free to serve as his publisher by exclusively distributing it. And we are free to voice our opinions and choose not to support either of them. A more accurate title for this piece might be "Yelling 'censorship' when your ideas are unpopular is for crybabies." Erin Burns, Minneapolis   Ramesh Ponnuru writes for Bloomberg Opinion on Feb. 7 that the GOP should block any and all of President Joe Biden's Supreme Court appointees ("Why the GOP must oppose Biden's court pick," Opinion Exchange). Well, my answer to this absurdity is: Biden, do what Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell would do and shove it down the right-wing GOP throat. Ponnuru makes his ideology quite clear, and it is appalling to any common-sense American! We are not ruled by minority bullies who disregard the rule of law. As McConnell says, and evidently Ponnuru says, to the victor go the spoils. Well, Biden and Democrats, act like victors and do what is best for the country. Appoint whomever you desire and do it now. How a Bloomberg Opinion writer states that only the right-wing GOP is reading the Constitution correctly is beyond absurd! In fact, its followers are taking books off library and school shelves faster than any pseudo-Republican can in fact read the Constitution. We Democrats have the power — use it! Paul J. Bartone, Eden Prairie  •••  Any demand that a Supreme Court Justice be any specific race or gender is both racist and sexist. Isn't it amazing how Democrats and social justice warriors are not only allowed but encouraged to display such egregious hypocrisy that they crucify others for? Jim Bendtsen, Ramsey   Spring planting is just around the corner. Monarchs and bees have been getting a lot of press. It is time to broaden the thinking and planting to include the more anonymous butterflies, moths and insects that are pollinators and are beneficial to a healthy ecosystem. Monarchs, bees and other insects need food sources all through the spring and fall and to overwinter on. Trees and shrubs are an important part of a healthy environment and become swarmed with bees and insects when other plants are not available. A lawn with different heights of plants, shrubs and trees is not only pleasing to the eye but is a haven for birds and wildlife. The majestic trees that make up the urban forest are dying and not being replaced. Consider planting native trees where appropriate. Don't plant a shrub, plant a cluster of shrubs. Plant for the future. Yards do not have to be boring. It is a joy for the family to watch it evolve through the seasons. It may seem daunting, but it doesn't have to all be done in one year. Pick a tree or two, a few shrubs, some plants. Set aside a corner for native grasses and plants or mix them in to complement other plantings. As the ancient proverb says, "The best time to plant a tree was 10 years ago; the second-best time is today." Jim Muyres, Mankato, Minn.   We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here.