It was a cold winter day on Nov. 10, 1950. My parents, recent immigrants from Ukraine, fled the bloodlands of Europe and arrived in Minneapolis. In their steamer trunk were all their worldly possessions. In their souls they possessed an ocean full of hope and determination to fulfill their American destiny.They embraced their new homeland and were determined to survive. It is now February 2022, and we are on a cusp of a new world. It is easy to succumb to our fears and not embrace the challenges of our society today. Minneapolis is a great city in so many ways. Its beauty and quality of life are consistently ranked among the best cities in the United States. Downtown, with its riverfront park system and history, is unrivaled. As a kid growing up in Northeast, I skipped rocks on the riverbanks and clamored through the remains of the lumber and sawmills. Another aspect of Minneapolis is the beauty of its citizens, always thinking of their neighbors and being progressive in their approach to the resolution of its problems. I cannot deny that there are problems — with race and crime and social and economic inequities. But these are problems that exist not only in Minneapolis but in America and globally. We can live in fear and move to what we perceive is a safer community. But we will never escape the societal and economic changes around us. It is better to stand our ground and resolve these problems with transparency and communication. I am not giving up on Minneapolis. I have faith that we will overcome our problems and become more resilient and beautiful in the future. We must face the challenges before us and remember what we should be thankful for: our freedom, our democracy and our way of life. My parents fled a world that was destroyed by autocracy and bloodshed. Let us remember we have a responsibility as citizens to work through our problems, no matter how hard or uncomfortable it is. Orest Kramarczuk, Little Canada The writer is owner of Kramarczuk Sausage Co.  •••  I hear you, Andy Brehm. I hear you! ("Anarchy in Minneapolis goes unchallenged," Opinion Exchange, Feb. 15.) I hear you when you speak of the decay of decorum in Minneapolis, the loss of civility. I hear you say the sky is falling. The wolves are running wild. I hear the apocalypse is upon us. But what I don't hear, Mr. Brehm, are any solutions. I hear no suggestions, no policy shifts, no ideas that would address the real issues at the root of our current problems. I would love to hear how you would police Minneapolis differently. How you would distinguish between legitimate protests and random vandalism? How you would quell protests without violating the rights of the protesters? It's very easy to sit by and blame what you regard as permissive leadership. It's also intellectually lazy to do so without offering ideas. So, Mr. Brehm, let us hear your suggestions. Let us hear your ideas for reforms or policy changes that would truly address the real and legitimate issues that face our cities today. Be a part of the solution, sir. Dennis J. Sutliff, Minneapolis  "Showdown begins over the future of social studies" (Feb. 6) irked me. As a retired public-school teacher, current state senator and someone who spent four years in the House, having served on education policy and finance committees all six years, I am not surprised by comments of GOP members. Additionally, I am a descendant of the Standing Rock Lakota nation and have championed the ethnic studies bill throughout my legislative tenure. I second the statement by Curtis Johnson, chair of the Roseville school board and a member of the committee that wrote the potential standards: "Everybody should see themselves in the curriculum. ... And that isn't happening right now." Sadly, this article follows the historic practice of leaving American Indian students out of important conversations, failing to include American Indian students in this discussion, as if they do not exist or are not worthy of inclusion. Government and history lessons across the nation have intentionally ignored the Indigenous American Indian and Alaska Natives, who have never not been integral and unique members of U.S. society. The article fails to validate Minnesota's American Indian students due to the absence of data or reference to their participation in academia and society. This invisibility was recently dubbed "asterisk mentality," describing American Indians' exclusion from data, represented as an asterisk — a population not deemed significant enough to report. To fully inform readers and analysts, data — on all populations, American Indians included — must be reported. Students and the public must understand the cause and effect of our history, which is an essential part of being critical thinkers. No one understands this better than Minnesota's 11 tribal nations and other tribal citizens: explicitly proud citizens, co-governing participants as sovereign nations, sharing the geography and history of our state for many generations, and economic state leaders. With this reminder, we must move beyond an "asterisk mentality," supporting American Indian students, ensuring that they and their ancestors' history is accurately acknowledged, taught and discussed across curricula, in the media and data collection, and recognize that our Indigenous populations are not statistically insignificant. Sen. Mary K. Kunesh, New Brighton  •••  The proposed "Minnesota Parents' Bill of Rights" is a terrible idea ("Bill wants parents informed of studies," front page, Feb. 15). Or, more precisely, it's an idea that, if implemented, will make our system of public education nothing but worse. Here's the problem: When our educators provide their planned curricula, our hyper-polarized, politicize-everything society will lead to entirely predictable demonstrations demanding the curricula be changed, along with equally predictable demonstrations demanding the curricula either be left alone or be changed in an entirely different way. And our educators, faced with diametrically opposed requirements from two (or more) intractable constituencies, are supposed to do what? Pick a side? Look for a compromise when the whole problem is a refusal to compromise? Let me propose a harmless alternative that we know has a chance of working because it has, in the past, worked: Instead of trying to legislate this issue, concerned parents already have a more effective tool at their disposal: Attend parent/teacher conferences or otherwise make time to talk to your children's teachers. And, even more important, to listen to your children's teachers. As with your children, you just might learn something. Bob Lewis, Minneapolis  •••  State Sen. Roger Chamberlain does not actually "want a partnership between parents and educators" ("Bill wants parents informed of studies"). What he wants is campaign donations and votes, and he's using my children to get them. He and his ilk are following the national money being donated to local politicians for the express purpose of indoctrinating students, while simultaneously dismantling public education. When it comes to education, Minnesota doesn't follow, it leads. But Chamberlain and the state GOP have found an itch that produces money when you scratch it, so they're working overtime to convince parents that the same public schools that make Minnesota a perennial star in education are actually failing. He doesn't want to "talk about weeds and details" because then he'd actually have to provide proof of his claims and present a cogent plan to address the supposed problems. Sen. Paul Gazelka tipped his hand when he revealed he's not concerned about Minnesota's "math or science" curriculum (spoiler alert: These fields aren't devoid of social issues). When he says he wants parents to have control over "social studies standards … and what books are read" he means only some parents — those who feel as he does (regardless of the facts). I don't want random parents deciding what my children are taught in school any more than I want random parents deciding on my children's health care. Parents have always been a powerful partner to educators. From the simplest act of ensuring we send our kids to school well-rested and well-fed, to the votes we cast impacting funding and policy. But the power and authority to make decisions on behalf of all students should be left to licensed professionals who have the education, training and oversight necessary to keep Minnesota a public school rock-star — not random parents who are allowed to impose their beliefs on all students just because they complained the loudest. Those parents can exercise their free will and choose to end their partnership with public education. Rachel Bandy, Medina   We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here.