I live in the neighborhood another writer discussed in a recent opinion piece ("Anarchy in Minneapolis goes unchallenged," Opinion Exchange, Feb. 15) — a neighborhood allegedly full of horrors and chaos. I'll be honest, it has been a very hard past 20 months. With helicopters hovering overhead for what felt like the hundredth time last Friday, I am the first to admit being tired of the chaos. But to paint my neighborhood and the city I live in as a hell world is an oversimplification and simply not true. It's certainly not helpful. First and foremost, I am a human being. Just like you. One hundred percent like you. I also happen to be continually saddened by how humans are treating other humans. In person and online, through physical violence, cruel words or, the worst part of it all, by dismissing the humanity of other people due to some perceived difference. The disease of "othering" is not so slowly destroying our communities and our country. The good news? This disease has treatments and even a cure, if we are willing to work at it. I grew up in a rural area, live in Minneapolis and work in the suburbs. In every location, I have been surrounded by people who simply wanted to live a good life and love their family and friends. In the past, like many people, I have been caught up in othering people due to where they live or other characteristics. I too have caught myself uttering variations of: "Those people …" It never felt good, it never felt true, and now I know why. I am all these people. All these people are me. The distinctions and divisions are made from fear and anger, not the common ground we all know exists. I made the mistake of reading some comments responding to the recent commentary. The hate that people have toward the residents of Minneapolis is shocking. Hurtful. It changes nothing, except by dividing us further. I would ask anyone who engages in this behavior the question I ask myself when I catch myself doing this: Does othering really make you feel good? Do you really believe we in Minneapolis want and deserve chaos? I can assure you we do not. We want to feel safe. We want to live a good life. We want to be with our family and friends. Just like you. Many of us are suffering from "othering" but there's a cure for this terrible disease. It's seeing the humanity in all other people. It's remembering that I am just like you and you are just like me. Do we have differences? Of course! Do people make terrible choices sometimes? Of course! However, at our core, regardless of our choices or our traumas, we want the same basic things in life. I challenge people to try the following practice for the next week (or longer): When you catch yourself judging other people or wishing them harm, pause, breathe and repeat to yourself a few times: Just like me. I'll be doing the same. Just like you. Christine Petrich lives in Minneapolis.