The Twin Cities will escape the brunt of a major winter storm that is poised to bring a foot or more of snow to central Minnesota, but the metro area still is poised to get hit with one of the largest snowfalls of the season. Accumulating snow won't arrive until sunrise Tuesday. And 3 to 6 inches will pile up throughout the day, with the highest totals in the northern suburbs, said Tyler Hasenstein, meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Chanhassen. "The trend has moved things north [of the metro]," he said after early forecasts put the Twin Cities in the bull's-eye of the storm and in line for a hefty snow. In the metro, "it will be an average snowstorm." But not far to the north, the storm, expected to last through Tuesday night, already had socked places such as Royalton, Evansville, Alexandria and Browns Valley in western Minnesota with more than a half-foot on Monday. More than 6 inches had piled up in Duluth, according to the National Weather Service. By the time things wrap up, some places, such as St. Cloud, Duluth and Brainerd, could wind up with 8 to 14 inches, Hasenstein said. A winter storm notice covering an area from Willmar to the northern Twin Cities suburbs and north to Duluth and Detroit Lakes remains in effect until 6 p.m. Tuesday. Strong winds combined with fluffy snow could create blizzard conditions in the Red River Valley and the Fargo-Moorhead area into Tuesday. A blizzard warning was posted for the area until noon Tuesday. "There are difficult travel conditions presently in central Minnesota,"  Hasenstein said. State troopers were responding to reports that several vehicles had slid off roads in northwestern Minnesota on Monday, Sgt. Jesse Grabow with the State Patrol said. Across the border in North Dakota, hazardous conditions led to a multi-vehicle crash on Interstate 94 west of Fargo, the state's Department of Transportation reported. Westbound lanes were closed between West Fargo and Casselton, the agency said. MnDOT has a full complement of plows dispatched to clear roads, but "it's going to be a lot of snow to keep up with," said spokeswoman Anne Meyer. Winds gusting between 20 and 25 mph will add an additional challenge by reducing visibility and blowing snow back onto roads that already had been plowed. "This might take a bit longer to get roads in the clear," she said. MnDOT was pretreating roads in the metro, but with arctic air coming in behind the snow, the chemicals and salt that melt ice won't work as fast. "We are ready to go and will be on the job until we get the roads clear," she said. "We have enough drivers and materials. We are never running to Lowe's." MnDOT and the Weather Service were advising motorists to stay off the roads if possible and to pack a survival kit in case they get stuck. Metro Mobility, the door-to-door service for people with disabilities, warned riders of possible delays Tuesday, and to "consider rescheduling your ride." The long-duration storm may be one of the biggest of the season but is quite average by February standards. The largest snowstorm in the Twin Cities this season occurred Dec. 10-11 when a foot fell at the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. But the snow melted a few days later when temperatures soared into the 50s and 60s and brought the state's first-ever December tornados. For the season, about 35.7 inches has fallen at the airport, the official weather recording station for the Twin Cities. That is a few inches above the seasonal average, Hasenstein said. After Sunday's balmy respite from the bitter winter cold — the mercury topped out at 44 degrees — no big warmups are in the forecast. Highs the rest of the week in the Twin Cities will be in the teens with lows near zero. That pattern is expected to hold the rest of the month. "I think we are stuck in a chilly pattern for a while," Hasenstein said. Staff reporter Alex Chhith contributed to this report.