Ninety-five percent of Afghans don't have enough to eat. Nearly 9 million are at risk of starvation. The United Nations' emergency aid request, at more than $5 billion, is the largest it has ever made for a single country. "The current humanitarian crisis could kill far more Afghans than the past 20 years of war," David Miliband, president of the International Rescue Committee, wrote recently. And we bear much of the blame. We have turned a crisis into a catastrophe. The drought in Afghanistan is the worst in decades. The Taliban is a brutal regime that has no idea how to manage an economy and in many ways is barely trying. But neither drought nor Taliban mismanagement fully explain the horror unfolding in Afghanistan. "The long and short of it is Western economic restrictions are creating an economic crisis in the country which is driving tens of millions Afghans into starvation," Graeme Smith, an Afghanistan expert at the International Crisis Group, told me. In August, President Joe Biden withdrew U.S. troops from Afghan soil. But even as we left Afghanistan's land, we tightened a noose around its economy. The Afghan economy was built around our support. Roughly 45% of the GDP and 75% of government spending was foreign aid. When we abruptly cut off that cash, we sent it into a tailspin. Then we went further. We froze more than $9 billion that belonged to the Afghan government — the vast majority of its foreign reserves. Sanctions that had long applied to the Taliban as a terrorist group suddenly applied to the government of Afghanistan, and few companies or countries dared violate them. "If state collapse was the object of policy, it could hardly be better designed," Miliband told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in unusually blunt testimony. I was more sympathetic than many to the chaos that accompanied the U.S. withdrawal. We lost too many of our own, and left behind too many who had risked their lives at our side, but the core of the catastrophe stemmed from failures previous administrations had covered up or refused to face. There is no good way to lose a war. What's happening now is different. Economic collapse was predictable, and it was predicted. That we did so little to stop it, and so much to worsen it, is unconscionable. The Biden administration isn't made of monsters. They don't want this. It is easy to criticize. So before I go further, let me try and explain their perspective, and some of the constraints they face, as best I can. First, the sanctions. The Treasury Department has repeatedly clarified that the sanctions regime isn't meant to stop humanitarian aid or truly private enterprise. And the United States remains the single largest aid donor to Afghanistan, with more than $500 million provided since August. Then there's Afghanistan's foreign assets. The afghani is a weak currency, and much of the country's commerce and saving takes place in dollars. Billions of those dollars sat in U.S. banks. We froze those assets when the Taliban took control of the country. What if the money made its way to terrorists or simply to enrich the Taliban? Meanwhile, an old legal ruling returned with unexpected force. In 2012, a group of 9/11 families persuaded a New York judge to name the Taliban responsible for billions of dollars of damages. When the Taliban took over Afghanistan for a second time, the families persuaded the courts that since the Taliban now controls the Afghan government, that government's assets could be taken as payment. The assets of a government, in theory, belong to its people. Andrew Maloney, one of the lawyers representing the 9/11 families, has considered this argument and, in an interview with the BBC, gave his answer. "The reality is, the Afghan people did not stand up to the Taliban when they had the opportunity," he said. This is nothing less than an assertion of collective guilt, and a gruesome one, given how many Afghans died fighting the Taliban. Faced with this mess, the Biden administration proposed a bizarre deal wherein the 9/11 families will get half the money and the other half will be put toward Afghanistan's humanitarian crisis, though no one yet knows how. But in both the sanctions and the seizures, you can see an almost Kafka-esque madness in the U.S. position. They are expending all this effort to ameliorate the consequences of a sanctions regime they are implementing. They are desperately brokering deals to preserve foreign reserves that they are freezing. "To destabilize Taliban rule, the U.S. is weaponizing the aid-dependent Afghan state that it built," Spencer Ackerman, a national security reporter, wrote in his excellent newsletter, Forever Wars. "This economic weapon works by harming the Afghan people directly, with the hope that the suffering of the people prompts the end of the Taliban regime." That this will work — that these sanctions will destabilize the Taliban or persuade them to make the changes we want — is a hypothesis. It is only the Afghans' suffering that is fact. "The reality is that the only thing Washington has control over is its own actions," Adam Weinstein, a research fellow at the Quincy Institute, and a former Marine who was deployed to Afghanistan in 2012, told me. "It has a choice here to not make things worse for Afghans. And it's actively choosing instead to make them exponentially worse." The U.S. is trying to choke the Taliban with one hand while handing out aid and sanction exemptions with the other. Too often, the Biden administration's humanitarian victories are scored against their own policies. It is spending precious time and energy fighting itself. I found it hard, in my conversations with Biden officials, to get them to zoom out, to explain how our various policies fit into a sensible, humane whole. But this is how it looks to me, and to many analysts I spoke to: Over 20 years, the U.S. built an aid-dependent economy in Afghanistan. When we left, we withdrew the aid on which it depended. When the Taliban took over, we turned the sanctions and financial weapons we'd wielded against them against the government and country they now controlled. We comfort ourselves by saying we are the largest donor to the Afghanistan relief effort, but we are also a major reason the crisis is dire in the first place, and we continue to be. I make no pretense of knowing how to solve a problem as wicked as Afghanistan. But Biden chose this policy. For his own legacy, and more important, for the tens of millions of humans suffering in Afghanistan, he needs to figure out how to fix it.