As I listen to former President Donald Trump and Mike Pompeo praise Russian President Vladimir Putin and his strategy and observe Tucker Carlson provide a full-throated defense of Putin's actions, I realize that the meaning of "GOP" has morphed into "Gush Over Putinism." The American right, to a significant extent, appears to accept Putin's logic that he is justified in his revanchist plans because Ukraine was once part of Russia and there are many Russian speakers in Ukraine. Following that logic, I'm sure the right wing in the U.S. will accept that Texas, Arizona and New Mexico were once part of Mexico, and there are millions of Spanish speakers in those states. When Mexico decides to annex those areas, the Trumps and Pompeos and Carlsons of the right will give them enthusiastic support. What has happened to the Grand Old Party? Gregory B. Wright, Edina  •••  The time has come for Republicans to make a decision. Are you Russians or Americans? With Trump's praise of Putin's invasion of Ukraine, it is clear that Trump wants to be a dictator like Putin, and that he approves of such strong-arm methods. Trump thinks Putin's gambit of unilaterally declaring parts of Ukraine "independent" is "wonderful." So, Republicans, do you want a Putin-style dictatorship for the U.S.? That is what you are advocating if you support Trump in this. Support for Trump at this time is support for the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It puts such supporters in direct conflict with American interests and values. If, as seems likely, Putin follows the Ukraine invasion with an attack on one or more NATO countries, the U.S., as a member of NATO, will be de facto at war with Russia. Support for Trump and Russia at such a time is tantamount to treason. Philip Royce, St. Cloud  •••  Days ago on TV, did you see the imaginary trap doors under Putin's security officers when he waited for each of them to approve his actions against Ukraine? The next day, did you picture the trap door beneath his spy chief? Putin badgered him away from just saying he supported "one last chance" for Ukraine and its allies. The nervous chief eventually caved and said that he supports independence for two regions in Ukraine. Putin was sitting in a large room in both situations and was very distant from his underlings, showing them he can't be touched — the same way evil antagonists have been depicted in James Bond movies. No doubt, figurative trap doors were under each of Putin's subjects, waiting to be opened to a pool of hungry piranhas below if any signs of disloyalty were perceived. Trouble is, none of this is a movie. It's all too real, and Putin is the worst kind of international bully there can be. Jim Bartos, Maple Grove  •••  The images of the Russian invasion into Ukraine are reminiscent of World War II. The ambitions of Putin are only known to him. Major invasions and the challenges they present have historically been the graveyard for despotic governments. The failure of President Joe Biden to invoke serious sanctions preinvasion is now a lost opportunity. However, all is not lost if the president is willing to make a significant policy decision. The ultimate sanction that can impact Russia is for Biden to unleash the American energy sector into full production. He must withdraw decisions that stopped the Keystone XL Pipeline and the recovery and exploration on federal land. The concern over climate change pales in comparison with the present destabilized world order. It is unconscionable that the U.S. buys so much of its daily oil supply from Russia. The U.S. must show the world its fossil-fuel industry is back into full production. This will successfully compete with Russia's most important export — fossil fuels. Their weak economy will be adversely effected further and the Russian people will not support Putin. Biden can also supply Europe with critical liquid natural gas. The U.S. has successfully brought Russia to its knees with our economic capacity in the past. We must renew these efforts using fossil fuels. The world is again confronted with a tyrant we haven't seen since Adolf Hitler. Mr. President: Do the right thing and reaffirm that America is the leader of the free world. Joe Polunc, Waconia  •••  Putin was motivated to attack Ukraine because Biden is weak and ineffectual. Biden made two serious mistakes. First, his withdrawal from Afghanistan was both unnecessary and totally mishandled, cost the lives of 13 American soldiers and empowered the Taliban, a brutal evil dictatorship. Second, at a news conference discussing Ukraine, Biden stated he would tolerate a "minor incursion" by Russia. That gaffe had to be walked back an hour after he said it. His poll numbers continue to drop. The stock market has tanked. His vice president is as incompetent as he is. I voted for Biden. I'm sorry I did. As bad as Trump was, Putin did not invade Ukraine while Trump was president. Dan Cohen, Minneapolis  •••  I am so sad about what is happening in Ukraine. If we don't send a strong message now, it will be another country after that and another country after that. Russia wants power and control. It is like the domino theory starting up again. And if we are afraid to take a strong stance, then it is because our country has allowed itself to be weak inside and outside due to our own polarization, plus the weakening of our defense. I believe strongly that our best offense is a strong defense. Bullies don't mess with someone they feel they can't beat, and Russia is being a bully! If we allow it, then we allow bullying! We need to stand strong before it is too late. Maureen Hudak, Farmington   Regardless of one's opinions concerning the Canadian truckers' Freedom Convoy, the authoritarian reaction of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's government deserves attention. Canada is our nation's closest ally geographically. We have a hugely important trading relationship. Our two countries have a deep affinity, given our joint heritage of English common law. Trudeau, under seriously misguided existing law, enacted the Emergencies Act, which essentially gives the government unlimited authority over every Canadian citizen. If Trudeau and company found that you contributed a mere $50 to the truckers' protest, you could have had your bank accounts frozen and left without a means to survive. Ottawa's police chief warned protesters that they will be investigated, subject to severe financial and criminal sanctions. All of this from our stalwart neighbor to our north. What, then, can we expect here? The table of oppression has already been set. We have American citizens languishing in D.C. jails for nothing more than "parading" at the Capitol. Far more ominously, we have the unholy alliance between Big Government and Big Tech, each determined to squash voices of dissent. I made a donation in support of the Canadian truckers. What will my sentence be? As a lifelong Minnesotan, well aware of our state's dedication to progressive policies, why am I hearing crickets? It's very simple. Either you subscribe to an honest exchange of views, or you sign on to authoritarianism. Mark H. Reed, Plymouth   We want to hear from you. Send us your thoughts here.