Minnesota budget officials predicted the state will have a massive $9.25 billion budget surplus, but cautioned Monday that "inflation and geopolitical conflict pose risk" to the outlook. The latest projection for the current two-year budget cycle will drive spending decisions at the State Capitol over the next few months. Legislators and advocates have been clamoring for a portion of the state's estimated budget surplus, which has grown since economists estimated at a historic $7.7 billion in December. "A higher income, consumer spending, and corporate profit forecast results in an improved revenue projection," Minnesota Management and Budget officials announced. "While spending is slightly lower in E-12 education and Health and Human Services." The state budget projection captures a moment in time, and the upcoming forecast was largely compiled before Russia invaded Ukraine. The global financial impacts of the war remain to be seen. Budget officials only released top line numbers Monday morning, and will offer more detail in the afternoon. They noted that changes to the forecast are mostly one-time and their planning estimates for the next budget cycle remains positive and hasn't changed dramatically from the last forecast. Legislators on both sides of the aisle have been unveiling long lists of ideas for how to spend surplus dollars, as well as remaining federal pandemic relief funds. Last week Senate Republicans proposed spending $3.5 billion this year on permanent tax cuts. The proposal is estimated to cost $8.5 billion over three years. "A month ago I would have said that I expect higher [surplus]. With things that are going on, especially in Ukraine right now, it's a concern," GOP Senate Majority Leader Jeremy Miller said as his caucus announced the tax plan, which he said Republicans will reduce if there is a significant change in the numbers. DFL Gov. Tim Walz and House Democrats want one-time tax relief and rebates, along with new spending on a paid family and medical leave program, child care support and $1 billion for workers on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic. Senate DFL Minority Leader Melisa López Franzen stressed that the state needs a balanced plan that doesn't set Minnesota up for future deficits. "We're not going to have a $7.7 billion surplus every year," she said Thursday. "We've already seen what the markets are doing, so we have to be very cautious and very prudent with the surplus." The war in Ukraine could exacerbate rising inflation and gas and oil prices in the United States, and will be a key consideration as Federal Reserve officials look to raise interest rates in March. State budget forecasts largely do not account for inflation on expenses, which DFL legislators are pushing to change this session — the latest in a series of attempts to alter the accounting approach. "When we do not consider inflation on the spending side, we're misrepresenting what a surplus or potential deficit really is," Rep. Jennifer Schultz, DFL-Duluth, said during a recent hearing on the bill. This is a developing story, check back for updates. Staff writer Briana Bierschbach contributed to this report. 