Twins catcher Ryan Jeffers' stay on the injured list will be longer than the 10 minimum days. At least six to eight weeks, in fact. President of Baseball Operations Derek Falvey announced ahead of the Twins' game against the White Sox on Saturday that Jeffers will have a procedure midweek to reset his fractured right thumb. Jeffers initially hurt his hand July 1, taking a pitch off his throwing hand in pregame warmups. An X-ray revealed nothing wrong, so he sat out a couple days before returning to the lineup and has been hitting well since, going 8-for-24 at the plate. But the pain never totally subsided, and Jeffers jammed it again in a recent game. This time, a more thorough magnetic resonance imaging exam revealed a small fracture. "He asked the question, 'Can I play through this?' And they said the best thing to do for you long term would be to make sure this heals appropriately and correctly," Falvey said, "which is why they need to do the procedure and put it in some kind of brace or mechanism to keep it from moving around." The Twins called up Caleb Hamilton from Class AAA St. Paul on Friday to keep two catchers on the active roster. And while Jeffers and Gary Sanchez operated as a catching tandem, Sanchez will surely take on more of the load in his partner's absence. Falvey said he expects Jeffers to come back for the end of the season, which means the team should be able to find internal substitutions for him. But Falvey didn't rule out the possibility of adding a veteran backup catcher before the Aug. 2 trade deadline. Jeffers will likely need a rehab assignment once the bone heals, so his total time away from the team could extend beyond the six-to-eight-week window. But Falvey was optimistic that because it's not Jeffers' catching hand or anything that affects the his lower body, Jeffers will still be able to do a decent amount work, like catching bullpens. Jeffers will also remain with the team to help the Twins strategize. "Hopefully in the interim period, he can be a big part of the game-planning conversation and be able to give Gary what Gary needs," Falvey said, "for [catching] Sonny [Gray] and for others that he hasn't caught as often." Hamilton was catching bullpens in St. Paul when he received the 5:30 p.m. call that he was heading to the big leagues. He scrambled to collect his things before driving himself to Target Field, walking into the Twins clubhouse around 6:30 p.m. "I was out of breath, I was sweating, I was still in my Saints stuff," Hamilton said. "I was just trying to rush to get here." Hamilton said his wife had just gotten into town the day before and was there to share in the good news. He also tried to call his parents and some friends from the short car ride to Minneapolis. Even amid the hectic situation, Hamilton said he was just "really happy." The catcher was a 23rd-round pick back in 2016. The Washington native played collegiately for Oregon State. With the Saints this season, he has hit .252 with 10 home runs. And while he will function mainly as a catcher, Twins manager Rocco Baldelli said Hamilton can also play at third, first or left field. "He's a good receiver, he throws a very playable, kind of solid-average type arm. He's sharp," Baldelli said of the 27-year-old. "You can talk to him, and you probably don't have to reiterate every point a half-dozen times. He's going to really latch onto stuff really well. And that's kind of what you want out of your catchers."