The color yellow has become a symbol of solidarity for the family of Jay Boughton, a youth baseball coach fatally shot in a fit of road rage last summer. But as his accused killer stands trial in Minneapolis, the judge ruled Tuesday that supporters can't wear it inside the courtroom. "The whole point is to bring his voice to the courtroom because he no longer has one," said Boughton's brother-in-law Stephen Robinson. "You can't put this light out." Hennepin County District Judge Nicole Engisch said the ruling will take effect Wednesday to ensure a fair trial after attorneys for defendant Jamal Lindsey Smith, 34, of Chicago, filed a motion to prohibit yellow clothing so as to not influence the jury. Smith is charged with first- and second-degree murder in the drive-by shooting on July 6, 2021. Boughton was driving home to Crystal on Hwy. 169 with his teenage son from a baseball game when, according to testimony, Smith was allegedly speeding and swerving next to Boughton, who honked, flipped his middle finger and was then shot. An assistant Hennepin County medical examiner, Lorren Jackson, said Boughton died from a gunshot wound below his left ear.  Jackson said the bullet struck his arteries and he bled to death. Jackson was the first to testify Tuesday after 10 witnesses took the stand Monday. He noted signs of medical intervention, such as the chest injury from CPR efforts, and stippling abrasions near the left ear lobe that indicated a gunshot fired within several feet and that the bullet passed through glass.  While defense attorney Emmett Donnelly successfully motioned that decorum needs to be controlled for courtroom gallery spectators, his request to remove members of the family during autopsy testimony was denied. Engisch instead advised spectators to make no audible reactions to any evidence. Relatives silently wiped away tears while wife Kristin Boughton  kept a downward gaze. Robinson said while family members are saddened and disappointed by the courtroom ban on the color yellow, they will honor the judge's decision and encourage supporters to continue wearing yellow outside the courtroom. He said the color had nothing to do with swaying jurors. "It was all about bringing Jay's light to the courtroom," he said. The majority of Tuesday was spent on procedural introduction of evidence, mostly from law enforcement officials — a stark contrast to Monday's emotional testimony by Boughton's wife and teenage son, Harrison. Minneapolis police officer Benjamin Chaput briefly testified about recovering the stolen SUV from Chicago allegedly driven by Smith in north Minneapolis. Jennifer Modlin, who works at a Fridley towing company, testified that the vehicle was brought to their facility July 21 and after seeing a TV news report, she realized a few days later it was the SUV that Plymouth police were asking the public to help find. Lori Cody, an employee of an animal hospital in Arden Hills, testified that a woman from St. Louis Park whom Smith was dating, Rondelle Hardin, brought her pit bull to the hospital and she gave police video surveillance of the SUV entering the parking lot. John Wilke, a 31-year crime scene investigator with the Hennepin County Sheriff's Office, testified he went to the Plymouth Police Department to process the SUV, which had distinct damage to the rear bumper. Wilke recovered a prescription receipt for Smith in the front passenger side door as well as an ID card for "J Smith" from Ron's Staffing Service Inc. in Illinois. Plymouth police Capt. Michael Reed said Hardin rented the SUV  on April 19 and it was flagged as stolen May 15. Investigators searching her home found mailings to Smith. After 10 witnesses took the stand Tuesday, prosecutor Dan Allard said that they are "substantially ahead of schedule" and may have a shorter day Wednesday because several out-of-state witnesses can't be there until Thursday.