Opinion editor's note: Star Tribune Opinion publishes a mix of national and local commentaries online and in print each day. To contribute, click here. ••• For nearly two challenging years, the historic stages along downtown Minneapolis' Hennepin Theatre District, and across the world, were dark. Lobbies once abuzz with theatergoers, bartenders and ushers were vacant; rows of velvet seats, usually filled with bated-breath audiences, were empty. Over the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, our theaters waited patiently and confidently for the return of audiences to captivate, delight and inspire. And sure enough, as it has for the past 100 years at the Orpheum Theatre, the curtain always rises again. Broadway is back. Hennepin Theatre Trust's first Bank of America Broadway on Hennepin season since March 2020, which closed this week with "Ain't Too Proud — The Life and Times of the Temptations," welcomed more than 250,000 Minnesotans and people from across the region back to the heart of the Hennepin Theatre District to experience the best of Broadway — the dazzling power of sisterhood in Disney's "Frozen," the captivating allure of forbidden love in "Moulin Rouge! The Musical," the inspiring triumph of hope in "Come From Away" and so much more. Those 250,000 theatergoers proved that the performing arts matter. By coming together once again to experience these timeless musicals and the stories they tell, we found joy, understanding and healing. But what's more, we know that bringing the best of Broadway to the heart of downtown Minneapolis has an even broader impact on the cultural and economic vitality of our state as we emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic. Thanks to its enduring mass appeal, the economic impact of Broadway in Minnesota is significant. Just at Hennepin Theatre Trust, the nonprofit owner of the Orpheum, State and Pantages theaters, our economic impact is historically more than $120 million per year. That's $120 million of direct investment in downtown Minneapolis' restaurant and hospitality industry thanks to audiences from across the metro, state, region and, indeed, the nation who come to Minnesota to visit, dine, stay and see world-class entertainment. That's not to mention the economic impact of the entire arts and culture sector in Minnesota, including the Ordway, the Guthrie Theater, the Minnesota Orchestra, Children's Theatre Company and others. Performing arts organizations and the audiences we entertain contribute to a thriving economy and to the identity of the Twin Cities as a flourishing hub of culture and activity. And we know that our audiences expect their visit to be safe. Together with our downtown partners, including Meet Minneapolis, the Minneapolis Downtown Council and the Minneapolis Downtown Improvement District, we prioritize above all else the safety and security of our audience members. At Hennepin Theatre Trust, our dedicated team of security professionals helps keep downtown safe by maintaining an active, on-street presence and building relationships with people in our neighborhood, including people experiencing homelessness. The presence of the performing arts helps create a bustling, welcoming and safe downtown for all Minnesotans. Finally, the value of a strong performing arts center to a community reaches far beyond the singular experience of seeing a show at one of our theaters. At Hennepin Theatre Trust, thanks to our loyal donors, sponsors and audience members, we're proud to provide musical theater education in over 100 high schools across the state, serving more than 8,000 high school students every year through our Spotlight Education program. We partner with Minnesota artists who bring Hennepin Avenue to life with vibrant, large-scale public art installations. And we are honored to host arts organizations from across the state who choose the Hennepin Theatre District to present their work to Minnesotans. This year, Hennepin Theatre Trust celebrates the 100-year birthdays of our beautiful theaters along Hennepin Avenue. As we celebrate the return of Broadway and look back on the rich history of the performing arts in Minnesota as a driving force of our state's economic and cultural vitality, we can't help but look forward to what is to come. Because not only does the show always go on, but our future will be stronger than ever. We'll see you again at the next curtain rise. Mark Nerenhausen is president and CEO of the Hennepin Theatre Trust.