FRISCO, TEXAS – Former Gophers running back Marion Barber III died of heat stroke, police said Monday. In a statement, Frisco police said the Collin County medical examiner had ruled the 38-year-old Barber's death an accident. Barber was found dead inside his Frisco apartment on June 1 by police who were making a welfare check. According to the autopsy report, a bathtub faucet in Barber's apartment was running when officers arrived and the unit's thermostat was set to 91 degrees with the heat turned on. "Mr. Barber was known to exercise in sauna-like conditions," the coroner wrote in his report. Police confirmed that family members had not heard from Barber for six days prior to the date his body was found. Sources told the Fort Worth Star-Telegram last month that Barber's decomposed body was found in the bathroom of his apartment and might have been there for several days. Sources said police went to his apartment to do a welfare check after residents reported water leaking from his unit. Barber's father, Marion II, told the Fort Worth Star-Telegram that his son's body had been badly decomposed by the time police found him. "They are just using tissue as they dig further into the cause of death," Marion II said last month. "They are ruling out things. They haven't seen any trauma, no foul substances in his body. His lungs were in working order. The heart and veins around the heart were good. They are ruling things out. Right now, we are just waiting." The wait is over. And his family and friends can be at peace knowing that Barber's death was ruled an accident. Police noted in the incident report that Barber "was known to have a history of medical problems and mental health concerns." "There had been so much talk and so many rumors about the cause of death," said Russell Flannigan, a close friend and father figure to Barber in Dallas. "This could have happened to anyone." The Cowboys drafted Barber in the fourth round of the 2005 draft, and he rushed for 4,780 yards and 53 touchdowns in his NFL career, playing six years in Dallas before finishing up with a season with the Chicago Bears in 2011. Barber led the Cowboys in rushing for three seasons in a row and was a Pro Bowl pick in 2007. "We are heartbroken by the tragic death of Marion Barber III," the Cowboys said after his death. "Marion was an old school, hard-nosed football player who ran with the will to win every down. He had a passion for the game and love for his coaches and teammates. Our hearts go out to Marion's family and friends during this difficult time." Said Gophers coach P.J. Fleck following Barber's death: "Marion was one of the best to ever play at Minnesota, and he is a big reason why many people are Gopher fans today."     