MIAMI  — Kyle Schwarber hit his NL-leading 29th homer, J.T. Realmuto had a homer and a double and the Philadelphia Phillies spoiled the major league debut of touted Miami pitcher Max Meyer, beating the Marlins 10-0 on Saturday. Didi Gregorius and Rhys Hoskins also went deep for the Phillies, who had not scored more than three runs in their previous seven games. Gregorius finished with four RBIs. "My goal every day is for each one of those guys to leave the building feeling good about themselves," Phillies interim manager Rob Thomson said. Philadelphia starter Ranger Suárez pitched five scoreless innings of four-hit ball. Activated from the injured list Saturday, Suárez (7-5) struck out four in his first outing since June 29. Suárez was sidelined because of a low back strain. "I felt really good, didn't feel anything in my back," Suárez said. "This helps us finish the first half with more confidence and hopefully we can maintain it the rest of the season." The 23-year-old Meyer, a former Gophers righthander who was the third overall selection in the 2020 draft, was lifted after Realmuto's one-out double in the sixth. Meyer (0-1) allowed five runs, seven hits, walked one and struck out five. "It was awesome, a dream come true," Meyer said. "I felt good going out there every inning. At the end, I could've made a couple of better pitches. They put the bat on the ball. But I feel like I'm in a good spot." Realmuto, who played with the Marlins from 2014-18, gave Philadelphia a 2-0 lead with his two-run shot in the fourth. He is 5 for 9 since sitting out the Phillies' two games in Toronto because of Canadian restrictions on unvaccinated travelers. "I'm finding ways to get hits now," Realmuto said. "I always enjoy competing against those guys. I've got a lot of good friends over there. Maybe there's something to me having more fun out there." Hoskins' leadoff homer and Gregorius' two-run single in the sixth padded the Phillies' advantage. Philadelphia broke it open with a five-run eighth against reliever Cody Poteet. Gregorius hit his first homer, a two-run shot, and Schwarber added a solo blast. "Those tack-on runs were big," Realmuto said. "If we can get our back end of the bullpen guys a little rest, it's always nice when you can score runs like that late in the game." Four Phillies relievers followed Suárez and limited the Marlins to one hit. Miami didn't have another base runner after Jesús Aguilar's two-out single in the sixth. "It's hard to identify one thing that's going on," said Marlins manager Don Mattingly, whose team has gone homerless in seven consecutive games. "Today actually, I felt like there were a number of balls that we kind of hit on the nose right at people, which was encouraging. Hopefully that's a good sign for us." CONTINUING DOMINANCE Suárez improved to 3-0 and lowered his ERA to 1.24 in his last nine outings against the Marlins. Five of the appearances were in relief before Suárez became a starter late last season. MARTÍNEZ ON THE MOUND Former major league pitcher Dennis Martínez threw the ceremonial first pitch before the game. Martíinez, who was born in Nicaragua, won 245 games during his 23-year career. The game coincided with the Marlins' Nicaraguan Heritage promotion. ROSTER MOVES The Phillies reinstated INF Johan Camargo from the 10-day injured list and optioned RHP Mark Appel and OF Mickey Moniak to Triple-A Lehigh Valley. Camargo entered in the eighth and singled. TRAINER'S ROOM Marlins: RHP Jimmy Yacabonis (left groin strain) was placed on the 15-day injured list retroactive to July 13. UP NEXT RHP Aaron Nola (5-7, 3.35) will start the series finale for the Phillies on Sunday while the Marlins will go with LHP Trevor Rogers (4-8, 5.42). ___ More AP MLB: https://apnews.com/MLB and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports