Minnesota United striker Luis Amarilla promised 25 goals when he came to the club the first time in 2020. Now back again, he has made no such prediction on assists, even if the two he provided in Saturday's 2-0 home victory over DC United equaled his total in his first 28 games with the Loons. Amarilla became creator and Reynoso scorer on a night the Loons extended their unbeaten streak to five games with a victory coach Adrian Heath called "comprehensive." They also moved into third place in the Western Conference, now behind only Austin FC and Los Angeles FC.  Reynoso has now scored twice in three of his past five games, with seven goals in his past seven games and nine in MLS play this season. On Tuesday, Heath made him one of 12 coach's selections for next month's MLS All-Star Game at Allianz Field, just when he had really started playing like one. His recent play has turned talk of an All-Star Game spot to potential league MVP. "I've always said he has MVP talent, which we know," Heath said. "He's a quality player. If he can get 10 to 15 goals every season, we've got one of the best players in the league in our hands." Amarilla himself now has two goals and three assists in his last five games. Afterward, Reynoso playfully suggested the two players had traded roles. "Totin turned into Rey and I turned into Totin," Reynoso said in Spanish translated by a team employee, using nicknames for both Amarilla and himself. "I usually try to assist him, make sure he scores the goals. Today, it was my turn to score the two goals to help the team." The first goal came in the 13th minute, when Reynoso headed a ball toward Amarilla. He two-touched the ball, sending a backheeled pass in the air toward Reynoso, who directed the ball with his dominant left into the goal just as he cut through the D.C. United defense. "Honestly, it did surprise me," Reynoso said of Amarilla's return pass. "It surprised me a lot." The second came in the 50th minute. That's when Amarilla created a turnover in the midfield and ended up with the ball on a run down the left side. He cut into the 18-yard box and found Reynoso, among four defenders, with a pass. Reynoso moved the ball from the right foot to his left, then gently sent it rolling along the turf past the outstretched hand of goalkeeper Rafael Romo for the brace. "Luis, he's the one that starts the pressure," Reynoso said. "Even when he doesn't score goals, he always helps. He always marks the opponent, starts the press and helps us a lot." Afterward, Heath was asked about both Amarilla's defense and offense. "He's playing with a lot more confidence," Heath said. "He's got a better understanding of the people he's playing with and around now. He'd be the first to say it has been a difficult start for him, but he's coming back. Looking at his energy levels, he's coming back to something we expected." The Loons lost defensive midfielder and captain Wil Trapp to a hamstring injury in the 20th minute. Joseph Rosales came on to play the rest of the game. "We'll know tomorrow, but it doesn't look good at this moment in time," Heath said. The Loons prevailed despite Trapp's injury. They did so against a DC United team that didn't play injured star scorer Taxi Fountas, keeper Bill Hamid or forward Ola Kamara and was missing just-traded Julian Gressel. Rooney watched from the stands after getting together with Heath — both of whom played for Everton, in different eras — Friday night before the game. "It was mainly old stories and reminiscing a little bit," Heath said. "I spent a few hours with him and he's very excited about the challenge." Last in the 14-team Eastern Conference, D.C. United lost 7-0 last week at Philadelphia and played Columbus to a 2-2 draw Wednesday in its first game since Rooney was hired, though Chad Ashton coached. The Loons are 4-0-1 in their past five games, the team's longest unbeaten streak since last summer.  They haven't lost since June 25 at Inter Miami, a game they should have won. If Amarilla predicted 25 goals once upon a time, has he predicted a number of assists? "No, he hasn't," Heath said. "I'll remind him of that. He owes me 23, does he?"