LOS ANGELES — A switch-hitting shortstop who was raised by a baseball coach — the Twins couldn't resist that resume on Sunday. And that's before you consider how accomplished Brooks Lee is with the bat. The Twins used the No. 8 pick in the MLB draft to choose the 21-year-old Cal Poly infielder, the 2021 Big West Player of the Year who followed that season up by hitting .357 in 2022. Lee also contributed 41 extra-base hits, including 15 home runs, for the Mustangs, who have been coached for nearly two decades by his father, Larry Lee. Seven years ago, the Twins used a first-round pick on another dangerous hitter who had been coached by his father — outfielder Alex Kirilloff, who is now a regular in the Twins' lineup. "When I get that phone call about mechanics or things he sees on the center field camera, he's Coach Lee," Brooks Lee told MLB Network earlier this month. "The rest of the time, he's Dad." Lee had been expected to be drafted among the top five players, but surprisingly fell to the Twins, who utilized their highest draft pick since taking another California shortstop, Royce Lewis, with the No. 1 pick in 2017. Vice President of Scouting Sean Johnson had predicted no pitchers would be chosen before the Twins' pick, but the Rangers at No. 3 and the Cubs at No. 7 defied that expectation by drafting college starters. Lee, the third shortstop chosen this year but the first from the college ranks, is in line for a big bonus when he signs; slot value for the No. 8 pick is $5.439 million. Lee was drafted in the 35th round by the Giants out of high school in 2019 but chose to go to college to play for his father instead. He missed nearly all of the 2020 season after undergoing hamstring and knee surgery but batted .342 with a .626 slugging percentage for Cal Poly the following season to take top honors in his conference. His father had him hit lefthanded from childhood, Lee told MLB Network, and gradually helped him become a switch-hitter. Lee excels at making contact, having struck out only 28 times while drawing 46 walks last season. At 6-2 but without upper-range speed, many scouts believe Lee will eventually move to third base. But his grasp of fundamentals is strong enough that he's likely to be given a chance to remain at shortstop. Cal Poly has already produced a Hall of Fame at the position, after all. "Maybe I don't have the hops that Ozzie Smith had," Lee said of his fellow Mustang, "but I'd love to be the next great shortstop from Cal Poly." Former Twins pitcher Kevin Correia was also drafted from the San Luis Obispo school. The Twins still had two other selections to make — 48th and 68th overall. The 20-round draft will continue Monday and Tuesday. Stillwater native Drew Gilbert, a junior outfielder at Tennessee, was selected by the Astros with the 28th overall pick on Sunday. Gilbert, drafted in the 35th round by the Twins in 2019, earned All-America honors for the Vols this season after hitting .362 with 11 home runs in 58 games.