KANSAS CITY, MO. – Jose Miranda was the hero of the Twins offense in their 6-4 victory over the Royals on Friday night, breaking an 0-for-20 drought with a single that ignited one run-scoring inning, and a double that drove home two insurance runs in the eighth. He did that while living with the looming, dreaded possibility that he will be optioned back to St. Paul as soon as Saturday, once Trevor Larnach returns from the injured list. Think baseball roster decisions can't be that cold, can't wipe a celebration away? All Miranda had to do was look at his teammate — former teammate — Devin Smeltzer. The lefthander "got a lot of high-fives in the high-five line," manager Rocco Baldelli noted after Smeltzer held Kansas City to one run over 5⅓ innings Friday, and he was smiling as he talked about recording his first victory in nearly two years. Then pitching coach Wes Johnson asked Smeltzer to step into Baldelli's office. The pitcher wasn't smiling as he came out. "This was not an easy one at all, the way he's been pitching. In a lot of ways deserves to be here," Baldelli said after notifying Smeltzer that he will be joining the St. Paul Saints again, starting Saturday. "He's giving us winning efforts. To look at a guy and give him news you know he doesn't want to hear, and in a lot of realities isn't going to hear … " But "it's a move we basically have to make," Baldelli and the Twins front office determined, because Bailey Ober, who pitched a bullpen workout Friday, is ready to return and start vs. the Royals on Sunday. Smeltzer can still be demoted without having to clear waivers, making him the tough-luck winning pitcher. And he was terrific Friday in earning his fifth major league victory and first since 2020, though he did it in an unusual way in this strikeout-heavy era. The lefthander faced 20 batters, walked one and watched the other 19 put the ball in play, becoming only the fifth Twins pitcher in the past decade to earn a victory without striking out a batter. Coincidentally, Smeltzer was relieved in the sixth inning by the last pitcher to do it — Griffin Jax, who beat the Astros without a strikeout last August. Naturally, Jax struck out two of the three Royals batters he faced. (The other non-strikeout winners were Bartolo Colon, Mike Pelfrey and Scott Diamond.) "He did everything we asked of him," Baldelli said. Why not keep him around to pitch out of the bullpen? "That would be putting him in a spot where he's not ready to make upcoming starts," Baldelli said, "and we don't want to do that." The Twins offense looked strong again, with its Buxton-and-Correa Reunion Tour off to a great start. Two great starts, in fact. Carlos Correa's second game back from the injured list and atop the lineup with Byron Buxton began just like the first one, with the shortstop triggering a first-inning eruption that spotted the Twins' starter a three-run lead before ever taking the mound. Buxton led off the game with a walk against Daniel Lynch, who shut out the Twins for five innings in April but was nowhere near as sharp in Kauffman Stadium. Correa followed with a single, so did Kyle Garlick to score Buxton, and Gary Sanchez smacked his fifth double in a week to add another. A Gio Urshela sacrifice fly made it 3-0, and gave the Twins 27 first-inning runs this season, more than any AL team except the Angels.Kansas City cut its deficit to 4-3 with a pair of seventh-inning runs off Tyler Duffey, but Miranda restored the two-run lead with his double the next inning. The extra runs came in handy, as Emilio Pagan gave up a ninth-inning home run to Emmanuel Rivera, then a pair of two-out singles before striking out Andrew Benintendi looking for his sixth save.