Minnesota leaders hurtled toward the final hours of the legislative session with few major bills completed, as an early afternoon goal for deals on education, public safety and other spending priorities came and went. "We have 'til midnight to pass these bills," said Senate Majority Leader Jeremy Miller, R-Winona. "We're trying to reach agreement, there are very good offers on the table." While Miller said Sunday afternoon that he still thinks there is a path to get various spending  bills done without a special session, DFL Senate Minority Leader Melisa López Franzen said that is not a possibility. Only the governor can call a special session. DFL Gov. Tim Walz has repeatedly said over the past couple months that he would not call one, and had not weighed in Sunday afternoon on whether he would change his mind. A House DFL spokesman said House Speaker Melissa Hortman, DFL-Brooklyn Park, intends to ask Walz for a short special session to wrap up bills if they reach deals today. But Miller rejected the idea. "We want to get our work done today. We're not interested in a special session," he said. He said Sunday afternoon he was headed to meet with Hortman and try to wrap up the education spending deal, which he said is a top priority for both parties. "I think we're very, very close," he said of an education agreement. López Franzen, of Edina, said lawmakers are also getting closer to a deal on health and human services spending. "We are trying to unclog the logjam here," she said, accusing Miller of not bringing Senate Democrats to the table to get work done. "We're willing to work. We're willing to get that logjam freed up. But no, there is fault on both sides." Meanwhile House Minority Leader Kurt Daudt, R-Crown, pointed blame at Democrats, saying they "are not letting go of the unnecessary spending that they want to do right now." Over the weekend, legislative negotiators reached a $4 billion tax deal that would eliminate state taxes on social security income, lower the bottom income tax tier from 5.35% to 5.1% and expand tax credits for homeowners and renters. But the fate of that agreement is tied to a comprehensive deal that includes an additional $4 billion in proposed spending. Miller told colleagues on the Senate floor Sunday that they should take up the agreement on the tax bill as quickly as possible. He noted they are continuing to work toward deals on the education, public safety, transportation and health and human services bills. Sen. Jason Isaacson, DFL-Shoreview, pressed Miller around noon Sunday on the logistics of completing the various bills. Isaacson said if there are deals this afternoon, he believes that could be too late for Capitol staff to do the work needed to prepare bills for votes before the midnight deadline. Miller said he has not heard from staff in the office that works on the bills, but legislators leading negotiations on the bills told him, "If we can get agreement within the next hour or two, there is still possibility to get most, if not all, of these bills done." Even after that deadline passed, Miller said he still thought there was a chance to get all the bills done Sunday. The Senate approved two more budget bills late Sunday afternoon: a drought relief package and a sweeping environmental and agriculture policy spending bill. Lawmakers, faced with similar stalemates in years past, have often leaned on extra sessions to complete their work. There has been at least one special session in eight of the past 10 years. With the full House and Senate and the governor's office on the ballot in November, legislators will be busy hitting the campaign trail this summer and there's little appetite for a protracted special session. During even-numbered years at the State Capitol, lawmakers traditionally pass a borrowing and spending package to maintain and improve infrastructure such as roads and trails, wastewater systems, college campuses and more. The so-called bonding bill is typically one of the last things to get done in a session, and would require broad bipartisan support in both chambers to pass this year. López Franzen said late Sunday afternoon she had heard that "we're very close on bonding." Daudt said his caucus is open to passing a bonding bill, but added that he is not optimistic about other items coming together in a special session. "I see the long faces and hear in their voices that they understand now that things are probably not getting done on time," Daudt said. "So we're open to having conversations about is there kind of a last-minute bill that can catch all the must-haves to get done before we go home." 