It was a monster scoop of intense public interest for millions of Americans. But when Politico published a leaked draft of a Supreme Court opinion showing that a majority of justices were likely to overturn Roe v. Wade, longstanding court-watchers reached for metaphors of natural disaster and biblical betrayal — to describe the leak. "It's impossible to overstate the earthquake this will cause inside the Court, in terms of the destruction of trust among the Justices and staff. This leak is the gravest, most unforgivable sin," the popular SCOTUSblog tweeted. Chief Justice John Roberts agreed in a Tuesday statement, adding that "Court employees have an exemplary and important tradition of respecting the confidentiality of the judicial process. ..." Roberts' phrasing suggests that perhaps one employee was less than exemplary. Other popular (and completely speculative) theories about the leaker's identity have tended toward some outraged liberal or Machiavellian conservative in the justices' clerk force wanting to sway a wobbling vote. Others, noting that one of the bylines belonged to a Politico reporter who covers national security, turned their eye further afield, wondering if the draft was obtained in a hack. But what if the leaker were management-level — say, a justice? To take it even further, what would it even look like if the lifetime appointees on the notoriously secretive Supreme Court were to become as leaky, gossipy, confessional, showboaty or — in a word — as transparent as their counterparts in the other branches of government? Key players such as President Donald Trump and Democratic Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez have expertly wielded social media to bring their own opinions on the government's inner workings directly to the public. By comparison, Supreme Court justices appear for oral arguments, ask questions (sometimes) and emit opinions later. For better or worse, Justice Neil Gorsuch isn't giving Instagram Live updates from his kitchen explaining how he thought the Justice Department's argument wasn't very good or why he might apply his interpretation of textualist theory to the latest ruling. As other institutions adapt to an era of increasingly invasive surveillance and increasingly incentivized self-publication, the Supreme Court is practically stuck in time. Monday's leak offers a small taste of a world where that might no longer be the case. While the leak is being cast as a betrayal, the high court has declined to adopt formal policies that would forbid justices themselves from practicing this kind of radical transparency if they felt like it. Although lower federal judges are governed by a code of ethics, the Supreme Court "is not governed by a code of ethics and has resisted for many years any effort either to impose a code of ethics or to get it to write its own code of ethics," said Stephen Gillers, a professor of law at New York University. Judicial leaks to the media can have messy aftermath. In an election-day article in 1978, the Los Angeles Times, citing two justices on the California Supreme Court, broke the news that the state court had decided, 4-3, to overturn a law that required prison terms for people who use a gun during a violent crime. But the decision had not been announced yet. A critic of liberal Chief Justice Rose Elizabeth Bird, who was facing a retention election, had accused the court of holding back publication to help Bird's election chances. Formal charges were never leveled at any of the justices. Bird later complained in a TV interview that the leaks led to "a full year of constant harassment" that diminished the court's "mystery" and "awe," meaning that "no one is going to accept anyone as a high priest anymore." But Bird also said she thought the inquiry was healthy because the public "had the opportunity to come to know some of the justices" and that it became clear that "we have very archaic ways of doing things." The U.S. Supreme Court long ago removed itself from the kind of transparency normally practiced by other branches of government, leading contemporary critics to call for reforms. "Why don't they tell us the votes when they deny certiorari and who voted which way?" said Erwin Chemerinsky, dean of the University of California, Berkeley School of Law. "There's so much needless secrecy around the court, and I hope we'll focus on that." This week's leak, though criticized by the court, has been invaluable to the public officials and members of the public who have already begun mobilizing for a post-Roe vs. Wade future. But it's exactly this kind of abortion-rights advocacy, before the Supreme Court has issued its final opinion, that has made many conservatives as well as court institutionalists incensed about the leak and questioning whom it benefits. In theory, the Supreme Court's word is supposed to be final, not subject to the same kinds of pressures that influence other powerful public officials. "Those who care about norms, decorum, civility, institutions and rule of law — or claim to — must hold the leaker and any co-conspirators fully accountable for this egregious breach," Mollie Hemingway wrote for the conservative Federalist website. "At the very least, they should be disbarred. Criminal charges might also be in order." She added: "Insurrection attempts against the Supreme Court must be quashed." The paradox at the heart of the Supreme Court is that it needs the other branches to enforce the rulings it issues, and anything that causes the court to lose its lofty legitimacy is a potential threat to its power. Many argue that the court's mystique has already been under question for years, long before this leak, in part due to the justices' tendencies to issue rulings — like this one — that align closely with the policy preferences of the parties that appointed them. "Everyone knows that the identity of the justices and their ideology matters enormously," Chemerinsky said. "If Hillary Clinton had won in 2016, we wouldn't be having this conversation right now." U.S. Supreme Court experts said that even though it isn't illegal for a federal justice to leak, there are other good reasons not to, including to avoid releasing market-moving information early and to promote better-considered opinions. "We want the decisionmakers to be candid with each other, with the idea that candor leads to better decisions," said Louis Virelli, a professor at Stetson University College of Law. "If it chills the justices from being candid with each other, that's a problem." It's also a little tough to argue that the Supreme Court should be transparent to promote democratic accountability when the institution was designed to be as democratically unaccountable as possible. Unlike presidents and lawmakers, justices, after receiving Senate approval, don't have any voters to answer to. Still, the very divided justices have a good reason to keep things civil and private for reasons separate from any kind of democratic theory or constitutional legitimacy or public oversight. "These folks work together for life in a group of nine," Virelli said. "It stands to reason that that sort of work environment is going to put a premium on collegiality." And as many reporters can tell you, the workplaces that leak don't tend to be the happy ones. 