The fall TV schedule has everything: firefighters, cops, lawyers. And that's just CBS. The networks have something for Mom, something for Dad and something for the college kid stealing Mom and Dad's cable login. Here are the new scripted shows announced for the 2022-23 broadcast season. ABC "Alaska": A recently disgraced reporter leaves her high-profile New York life behind to join a daily metro newspaper in Anchorage on a journey to find both personal and professional redemption. Hilary Swank stars. "Avalon": Based on a short story by Michael Connelly, the series centers on detective Nicole "Nic" Searcy, who heads a small office on an island and is pulled into a career-defining mystery. "Not Dead Yet" (midseason): Nell Stevens (Gina Rodriguez), a single self-described disaster, works to restart the career she left behind 10 years earlier. When she lands the only job she can find, writing obituaries, she starts getting life advice from an unlikely source. "The Rookie: Feds": Simone Clark (Niecy Nash-Betts) is the oldest rookie in the FBI Academy. It is a spinoff from "The Rookie," starring Nathan Fillion. CBS "East New York": Regina Haywood is the newly promoted police captain of an impoverished neighborhood at the eastern edge of Brooklyn. She needs to lead a diverse group of officers, some of whom are reluctant to deploy her creative methods. Amanda Warren and Jimmy Smits co-star. "Fire Country": Seeking redemption and a shortened prison sentence, Bode Donovan (Max Thieriot) joins a firefighting program that returns him to his small Northern California hometown, where he and other inmates work alongside firefighters to extinguish massive blazes across the region. "So Help Me Todd": Despite their opposing personalities, a directionless P.I. begrudgingly agrees to work as an investigator for his overbearing mother, a successful attorney reeling from the recent dissolution of her marriage. With Marcia Gay Harden and Skylar Astin. "True Lies" (midseason): Shocked to discover that her bland computer consultant husband (Steve Howey) is a skilled international spy, a suburban housewife (Ginger Gonzaga) is propelled into a life of danger when she's recruited to work alongside him. Fox "Accused": The anthology drama opens in a courtroom with a defendant being accused of a crime, then backtracks to reveal how these people got caught up in the extraordinary situations in which they find themselves. With Michael Chiklis, Rhea Perlman and Abigail Breslin. "Alert": When police officer Nikki Parker's son goes missing, she joins the LAPD's Missing Persons Unit to help other people find their loved ones, even as she searches for her own. "Grimsburg": Marvin Flute (Jon Hamm) may be the greatest detective ever but there's one mystery he still can't crack — his family. Now that he's back in Grimsburg, a town where everyone has a secret, Flute wants to redeem himself with the ex-wife he never stopped loving. "Krapopolis": The animated comedy, set in mythical ancient Greece, centers on a flawed family of humans, gods and monsters that tries to run one of the world's first cities without killing one another. "Monarch": When the reign of Dottie (Susan Sarandon) and Albie Roman (Trace Adkins) as country music royalty is put in jeopardy, heir to the crown Nicolette "Nicky" Roman (Anna Friel) will stop at nothing to protect her family's legacy, while ensuring her own quest for stardom. NBC "Lopez vs. Lopez": A working-class family comedy about dysfunction, reconnection and all the pain and joy in between. With George Lopez. "Night Court" (midseason): Judge Abby Stone (Melissa Rauch) follows in her father Harry Stone's footsteps as she presides over the night shift of a Manhattan arraignment court and tries to bring order to its crew of oddballs, most notably former night court prosecutor Dan Fielding (John Larroquette). "Quantum Leap": It's been 30 years since Dr. Sam Beckett vanished. Now a new team has been assembled to restart the project in the hopes of understanding the mysteries behind the machine and the man who created it.