With more than 1,400 participants and 55 teams playing in a club league this spring, boys' volleyball is a popular sport in Minnesota. But to Minnesota educators, just not quite quite popular enough. The Minnesota State High School League (MSHSL) Representative Assembly met Tuesday to vote on officially sanctioning the sport. Two-thirds majority was necessary for approval — 32 votes were needed. The final vote was 31 in favor, 17 opposed. "Obviously, it's disappointing. We were so close," said St. Paul Como Park athletic director Koua Yang, a first-generation Hmong immigrant who spoke to the representative assemble and the large group of supporters assembled at the Marriott West in Brooklyn Park. "It's not about pitting one sport against another. It's about more opportunity for kids." After falling two votes short of approval in 2021, members of the boys' high school volleyball association refocused their efforts. They attempted to address the concerns of those who had voted against the proposal and worked diligently to get the proposal before the assembly again this year. "We thought we had it this year," said Krista Flemming of Shakopee, an association director. "We answered all of their questions, but it seems like they didn't listen." Among the reasons cited for voting no were uncertainty about the time of year for the season, fall or spring. The proposal was initially intended for a spring season to take advantage gyms that often sit empty in spring months, but many administrators were reluctant to give up limited space in facililities that are often in high demand in March and April due to poor spring weather. The MSHSL had promised to put together task force to determine the correct time for the season. Other issues included cost, of which athletic directors are alway mindful, availabiliity of officials and if adding boys' volleyball would force an additionl, or reciprocal, move to accomdate Title IX requirments. The strongest supporting argument in favor sanctioning boys' volleyball arose from its popularity, purely from a stateside standpoint with more than 1,400 playing in the MNBHSVB club league this spring, and particularly with members of Minnesota's Asian community. Forty-one percent of the boys' playing volleyball identify as Asian, a community with an entrenched passion for volleyball.                         