The two-year anniversary of George Floyd's killing began quietly and with a cold rain Wednesday morning at the corner where he died. "I'm concerned about the rain — I think that will probably deter some people, but I'm really hoping that we have a good turnout," said Maria Bertrand, who came there to pay her respects. Bertrand works down the street for United Renters for Justice, a tenant advocacy group, and believes it's important for people to keep showing up to the area at 38th Street and Chicago Avenue, now memorialized and known as George Floyd Square. "I think it's still really important to remember why we have this and to remember why this is all here, why the community came together," said Bertrand. "Just to remember, just to really feel the importance of defunding the police and really changing our city and changing our state … it's helpful to actually have a place to remind us of that." The intersection is expected to draw a greater crowd Wednesday evening, when city of Minneapolis staff are scheduled to unveil a George Perry Floyd Square commemorative street sign and a candlelight vigil is scheduled for 8 p.m. A man who identified himself only as Joe gazed somberly at the spot where Floyd died under the knee of Minneapolis policeman Derek Chauvin. "To me personally, I feel like it's starting to fade away," he said. "You know, people are kind of going their own way now compared to what it was two years ago and I'm committed to this ... I'm going to still be here every day. I'm going to still be out here to honor George." Unny Nambudiripad recalled how the rise of activism and mutual aid following Floyd's killing was like nothing he'd ever seen. "It's hard to feel like we've made much progress, but I think that underlying the whole uprising and the murder of George Floyd was broader questions of racism and inequity in our society," he said. "And so I'm really glad that those issues have become more prominent and there's more momentum, because I think that will affect things related to police and police violence if we can address these structural, systemic issues around racism." At noon, Minneapolis Fire Chief Bryan Tyner was in his downtown office when renditions of the Black national anthem and collections of racial justice songs echoed through the bells of City Hall. An hour later, he recounted how he felt during a city event marking the second anniversary of Floyd's murder. "I don't know about you … but I felt a great sense of pride," Tyner said in a room filled with city employees, including Mayor Jacob Frey. The goal of the Second Annual Day of Racial Reckoning Assembly was to commemorate the life of Floyd and others killed senselessly, find healing and maintain resilience, said Tyner, the department's second Black fire chief. "It is painfully clear to me that we still have a long way to go," said Tyner, who helped organize the event. "But I do believe and I see evidence that we're just a little bit further along than we were at this time last year." Alberder Gillespie, director of the city's civil rights department, took employees back to that day when Chauvin knelt on Floyd's neck until he couldn't breathe. She challenged her colleagues to reflect and ask themselves the role they play in perpetuating racism and upholding white supremacy. "What you have to understand is there had to be a culture that was created that made that moment possible," she said, referring to Chauvin's actions. "What role did we play? ... You cannot have reckoning without truth." The mayor said in a statement Wednesday that Minneapolis will continue to utter Floyd's name and remember his life and legacy "as a friend, father, brother, and loved one." "[Floyd's] name has been heard in every corner of our world," Frey said. "In these days of reflection and remembrance, we must lead with kindness towards one another – and especially look out for and support our Black friends and neighbors." Wednesday evening, about three dozen gathered in front of the Governor's mansion in St. Paul to remember George Floyd and others killed by law enforcement including Amir Locke and Jamar Clark. People held signs and artwork and led call and response chants including, "Black Lives Matter" and "Say his name." Speakers demanded police reform and systems change. Many expressed frustration at the lack of change and lack of legislative action since Floyd's death. "It has been two years. What has changed?" one speaker said. "Black people continue to feel unsafe in the community."  Staff Writer Shannon Prather contributed to this story.    The Star Tribune and FRONTLINE have collaborated on the upcoming documentary, "Police on Trial," which premieres May 31 at 9 p.m. CT on PBS. 