A 22-year-old man with an extensive history of auto theft stole a construction company's pickup truck, fled police in Osseo and caused a two-vehicle crash in Brooklyn Park that killed the other motorist and severely injured his wife, officials said Monday. The wreck involving the pickup and an SUV occurred shortly after 7:20 a.m. Sunday on southbound County Road 81 at Brooklyn Boulevard, Brooklyn Park police said. The driver who died was a 57-year-old man from Maple Grove, said Brooklyn Park Deputy Police Chief Mark Bruley. His wife was sitting next to him and was "critically injured but [is] suspected to survive," Bruley said. Osseo police identified the couple as Daniel J. Fisher and 43-year-old Cathleen M. Fisher. The deputy chief said the SUV was stopped at a red light on County Road 81 when it was hit from behind by the stolen pickup. Osseo police say the pickup fled their city before the officer could even start to pursue. Adam H. Pattishall, 22, of North St. Paul, is in jail on suspicion of criminal vehicular homicide. An Osseo police incident report noted that Pattishall was taken to North Memorial "for possibly ingesting narcotics" before later being jailed. Pattishall has been charged in Minnesota at least six times in less than 4 1⁄2 years with auto theft, according to court records. He was convicted on that charge in four of the cases, while the other two criminal complaints resulted in felony burglary convictions. His most recent conviction came 12 months ago in Rice County for careless driving, having a suspended license and driving with no insurance during a stop at 2:50 a.m. on Feb. 26, 2021. The original citation said the car was reported stolen, and he "didn't know who the car belongs to."  The car was later reported not to be stolen. The pickup involved in Sunday's crash was stolen earlier that day from a warehouse in Plymouth, said the head of the construction company. Cathy Schmidt, president and CEO of Stahl Construction, said two people broke into a warehouse in Plymouth. One of them found the keys to the pickup and drove off while wearing a hard hat and vest, and hauling away other items she declined to specify. "They got into our warehouse through a vacant [warehouse] tenant space," Schmidt said. "They broke through a wall and disabled our computer system that tracks anybody in the space." Schmidt said her company is cooperating with police in their investigation, and "we are expressing our sympathy for the victims." According to Brooklyn Park police: Osseo police notified Brooklyn Park police that a pickup truck driver had fled from one of their officers "at a high rate of speed" on southbound County Road 81 into Brooklyn Park. The fleeing motorist soon struck an SUV, whose driver was declared dead at the scene by emergency medical personnel. Cathleen Fisher, the passenger in the SUV,  was taken by emergency medical responders to North Memorial Medical Hospital with severe injuries. A 911 caller alerted police to the fleeing driver's location, and Pattishall was arrested nearby at a Speedway gas station. Osseo Police Chief Shane Mikkelson said one of his officers saw a vehicle at a car wash earlier Sunday and noticed that one of the car's license plates was covered, and the officer suspected that "it looked like it was done on purpose." Also at the car wash was the stolen pickup, the chief said. While the officer circled the car wash in his squad, the pickup  "floored it out of the wash bay," Mikkelson said. "He never turned on his lights or siren. He was never in pursuit of the vehicle." The officer reported that the pickup was heading toward Brooklyn Park, and he continued driving in that direction "at normal speeds" until he reached the crash scene, the chief said. 